
  When Summer on the earth was queen
  She held her court in gardens green
  Fair hung with tapestry of leaves,
  Where threads of gold the sun enweaves
  With checquered patterns on the floor
  Of velvet lawns the scythe smoothes o'er:
  Their waving fans the soft winds spread
  Each way to cool Queen Summer's head:
  The woodland dove made music soft,
  And Eros touched his lute full oft.


  Round Time's dial thronged the hours,
    Masking in the Masque of Flowers


  Like knights and ladies fair be-dight
    In silk attire, both red and white.


  And as the winds about them played,
    And shook the flowers or disarrayed,


  A whispered word among them goes
    Of how the Lily flouts the Rose,


  Suitors for Summer's favor dear,
    To win the crown of all the year--
  And how each champion brave would fight,
    Queen Summer to decide the right.


  Then shrill the wind-winged heralds blew;
  The lists were set in Summer's view,


  With blazoned shields, & pennons spruce
  Of fluttering flag & fleur-de-luce:


  And spread with 'broidered hangings gay,
  Till all was ready for the fray.


  Between their banners white and red,
    Of Rose and Lily overhead,
      Queen Summer took her judgment seat,
  Whom all the crowd of flowers did greet.


  The silver arum-trumpet's sound
  With tongues of gold, & to the ground
  The shining champions each did ride,
  Their party-colours flaunting wide.


  Came first the glowing Rose in view,
  With crimson pennon fluttering new;
  With glittering spines all armed he came,
  With lance and shield--a rose aflame;
  With tossing crest and mantling free,
  On fiery steed,--a sight to see!


  Nor long the Lily knight delayed;
  In silver armour white arrayed,
  He flashed like light upon the scene,
  A lamp amid the garden green.
  Milk-white his horse, & housings fair
  With silver lilies shining there.


  The summer winds the onset blew:
  With level lance each champion flew,


  And clashed together, mid a snow
    Of petals on the grass below.


  Pressed eager then the gazing rows:
  Some cried, "the Lily", some, "the Rose"
  But while the fate of battle hung,
  Again the silver trumpets sung;


  And, sudden charging from each side,
    Of Roses and of Lilies ride
  A host to still maintain the strife
    For roses or for lilies' life


  Rose favoured knights of maidens true,
  Their pennons blushing with each hue
  Of Rose-craft, since from wild thorn frail
  Their order grew--through dark & pale
  Of maiden-bloom to damask deep,
  Or Gloire-de-Dijon that doth keep
  Enfolded fire within his breast,
  Still golden hearted like the rest.


  Like a cloud of morn they bore,
  Or rosy wave on grassy shore,
  That, breaking, dashed the silver spray
  Thay met--the Lily-lances play;
  In crested legends on that came
  Against them--snow & burning flame
  Mixing with the crimson flood
  Of roses & their fragrant blood,


  Whereof the grass undue was rife,
  As surged & rolled the floral strife,
  With checquered fortune o'er the green,
  Until at last up-rose the Queen:


  And caused the zephyr horns to blow
  A truce, the victor's crown to show.
  But like a garland on the ground
  Of roses & of lilies found,
  So linked & locked in strife they lay
  Each silver stem & clinging spray,


  The doughty champions could not rise
  Before the Queen to claim her prize.
  So to the field of battle down
  She stepped, with rose & lily crown
  Of silver & of gold fair wrought;
  And thus Queen Summer spake her thought:


  And to each warrior thus did say:
  Read in the fortune of your fray
  Fit emblem sweet of unity,
  Nor Rose nor Lily plant on high,
  But side by side in equal right,
  And pleasant cheer the Red & White:


  That men & maids be glad to see,
  Always in pleasant company,


  Life & Love close linked together,
  And strong to bear times' wintry weather


  Love not consumed in passion's heart
  But golden flamed & stedfast, sweet:


  Time's snows shall quench not, though they hide:
  Each spring renews the rosy tide:


  Each lover in his lady's face
  Sees roses blent with lilies' grace:


  The poet & the painter praise
  This heraldry of summer days;


  And every garden sweet that blows
  Doth set the Lily by the Rose.


  Peace, then in all my borders be,
  Beneath the silvern olive tree."


  Each rose, each lily's head bent low,
  And each one sought his fallen foe:


  And careful hands the wounded bore,
  With balm and honey to restore:


  And trimmed the grass & decked each seat,
  And made all fit for dancer's feet;


  Beneath the summer full-orbed moon,
  Ruddy & gold that rose full soon,
  Like rose & lily fused in fire,
  Ere the sunset's torch expire.


  Then forth each knightly lily led
  A blushing rosy dame so red;


  Nor lily hands or hearts denied
  The rose-hued warriors erst defied.


  Light-footed through the dance's maze,
  Quick they moved like wingéd fays;
  As measured music soft did swell,
  And echoed deep from bosky dell,
  Till, from the leafy forest side,
  The sweet-tongued nightingale replied,
  Dissolved in streams of silver sound,
  Merged in the moonlight, lost & found;
  Like the dancers, till in shade,
  Of Summer's verdant night they fade.

﻿
BLIND MAN'S BUFF.

When the win-ter winds are blow-ing,
  And we ga-ther glad and gay,
Where the fire its light is throw-ing,
  For a mer-ry game at play,
There is none that to my know-ing,--
  And I've play-ed at games enough,--
Makes us laugh, and sets us glow-ing
  Like a game at Blind-man's Buff.




THE DEAD ROBIN.

All through the win-ter, long and cold,
  Dear Minnie ev-ery morn-ing fed
The little spar-rows, pert and bold,
  And ro-bins, with their breasts so red.

She lov-ed to see the lit-tle birds
  Come flut-ter-ing to the win-dow pane,
In answer to the gen-tle words
  With which she scat-ter-ed crumbs and grain.

One ro-bin, bol-der than the rest,
  Would perch up-on her fin-ger fair,
And this of all she lov-ed the best,
  And daily fed with ten-der-est care.

But one sad morn, when Minnie came,
  Her pre-ci-ous lit-tle pet she found,
Not hop-ping, when she call-ed his name,
  But ly-ing dead up-on the ground.




ALL THINGS OBEY GOD.

"He saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth."

God's works are very great, but still
  His hands do not ap-pear:
Though hea-ven and earth o-bey His will,
  His voice we can-not hear.

And yet we know that it is He
  Who moves and governs all,
Who stills the rag-ing of the sea,
  And makes the showers to fall.

Alike in mer-cy He be-stows
  The sun-shine and the rain;
That which is best for us He knows,
  And we must not com-plain,

Whe-ther He makes His winds to blow,
  And gives His tem-pests birth,
Or sends His frost, or bids the snow--
  "Be thou up-on the earth."



[Illustration: HE SAITH TO THE SNOW: BE THOU ON THE EARTH. JOB 37.6]

[Illustration: SNOW-BALL-ING.]




SNOW-BALL-ING.

See these mer-ry ones at play,
On this snowy New Year's Day:
How they run, and jump, and throw
Hand-fuls of the soft, white snow.
You should hear them laugh and shout
As they fling the snow about!
'Tis by Frank and Gus alone
That the balls are chief-ly thrown,
While their cou-sins make and bring
Other balls for them to fling.
Ka-tie is pre-par-ing thus,
Quite a store of balls for Gus;
But her mer-ry sis-ter May
From her task has run a-way,
All that heavy lump of snow,
At her cou-sin Gus to throw.
E-dith is not very bold,
And at first she fear-ed the cold;
Now at last you see her run
Down the steps to join the fun.




THE SICK DOLL.


Oh! is there any cause to fear
  That dol-ly will be very ill?
To cure my lit-tle dar-ling here,
  Pray, doc-tor, use your ut-most skill.

And dol-ly, if you would get well,
  Hold out your arm, that Dr. Gray
May feel your tiny pulse, and tell
  What best will take the pain a-way.

And do not say: "I will not touch
  That nas-ty phy-sic, nor the pill."
If lit-tle dolls will eat too much,
  They must not won-der if they're ill.

If your mam-ma ate too much cake,
  She would be very poor-ly too,
And nas-ty phy-sic have to take;
  And, lit-tle dol-ly, so must you.



[Illustration: Those who the South-ern O-cean cross,
Meet with the wide-wing-ed Al-ba-tross.]

[Illustration: In ri-vers near the hot E-qua-tor,
Lives the huge, sca-ly Al-li-ga-tor.]

[Illustration: In north-ern snows, the Po-lar Bear,
'Mid glit-ter-ing ice-bergs makes his lair.]

[Illustration: In shel-ter-ed nooks, by ri-ver-sides,
The strange-ly-beard-ed Bar-bel hides.]

[Illustration: THE SICK DOLL.]

[Illustration: LITTLE ROSE'S VALENTINE.]

[Illustration]



NEL-LY'S PET LAMB.


This lit-tle Lamb was brought to Nell
  The day its old ewe mo-ther died,
And, now it knows and loves her well,
  It will not go from Nel-ly's side.
A-long the hall, and up the stair,
  You hear its lit-tle pat-ter-ing toes:
Her Pet will fol-low every-where
  A-bout the house, where Nel-ly goes.




ROSE'S VA-LEN-TINE.


ROSE.

The post-man has been, dear mam-ma,
  And has brought me a let-ter so fine;
And Su-san has one, but it is not, by far,
  So pret-ty a let-ter as mine.
And, pray, will you read it to me,
  Mam-ma, if I give you a kiss?
I wish very much to know who it can be
  That has sent me a let-ter like this.

MAM-MA.

To the lot of our dear lit-tle Rose
  We trust every bless-ing may fall;
And this is the prayer and the fond hope of those
  Who love her most dear-ly of all.

So now, lit-tle Rose, can you guess
  Who sent you this let-ter by post?

ROSE.

Oh, yes, dear mam-ma, I can tell you; oh, yes!
  For you, and pa-pa, love me most.




"YOUR HEA-VEN-LY FA-THER FEED-ETH THEM."


God loves His lit-tle birds; for all
  His ten-der care He shows;
A sin-gle spar-row can-not fall
  But its Cre-a-tor knows.

They do not sow, nor reap the corn,
  Gar-ner nor barn have they;
God gives them break-fast every morn,
  And feeds them through the day.

And this we know; for in His Word,
  Where all His ways we read,
We find that eve-ry lit-tle bird
  He cares for, and will feed.

God loves each lit-tle bird; but still
  More ten-der is His care
For chil-dren who o-bey His will,
  Than for the fowls of air.



[Illustration: YOUR HEAVENLY FATHER FEEDETH THEM. MATT. vi. 26.]

[Illustration: PLOUGH-ING.]




PLOUGH-ING.


The lit-tle birds by God are fed
But man must earn his dai-ly bread,
  And work that he may eat;
Striv-ing his best, as John does now,
The broad ten-acre field to plough,
  Where-in to sow the wheat.

Old John, the plough-man, ne'er re-pines,
Whe-ther it blows, or rains, or shines,
  But hap-py still does seem;
And Dick, who leads the fore-most horse,
Goes whist-ling as he walks across
  The field be-side the team.

Let us per-form as glad-ly, too,
The work our Mas-ter bids us do,
  And then we need not fear;
But when from earth-ly toil we rest,
We all shall meet a-mong the blest
  Who served Him tru-ly here.




"HOW IS THE WEA-THER?"

  Cold win-ter has come,
  And the cru-el winds blow--
The trees are all leaf-less and brown;
  These two pret-ty rob-ins,
  Oh, where shall they go
To shel-ter their lit-tle brown heads from the snow?
  Just look at the flakes com-ing down.

But see, they have found a snug shel-ter at last,
And hark, how they talk, while the storm whis-tles past:

  Says Pol-ly to Dick-y,
  "You're near-est the door,
And you are the gen-tle-man, too:
  Just peep out and see
  When the storm will be o'er;
Be-cause, if the wea-ther's as bad as be-fore,
I think we will stay, do not you?"



[Illustration: Far up a-mong the moun-tain peaks,
His food the lone-ly Con-dor seeks.]

[Illustration: The Co-bra has a dead-ly bite.
And yet in mu-sic takes de-light.]

[Illustration: The A-rabs through the de-sert wide,
On the swift Dro-me-dary ride.]

[Illustration: In gen-tle ri-vers, still and clear,
We see the shin-ing Dace ap-pear.]

[Illustration: "HOW IS THE WEATHER?"]

[Illustration: NELLY'S NEW PARASOL.]



NAUGH-TY NEL-LY AND HER NEW PA-RA-SOL.


"No, Nel-ly! not to-day, my child!
  I can-not let you take it;
This cold March wind, so strong and wild,
  Your pa-ra-sol, 'twould break it!"

So said Mam-ma; but Nel-ly thought,
  "I will take my new pre-sent:
Tis mine; to please me it was bought;
  The wea-ther's bright and plea-sant."

So naugh-ty Nel-ly sli-ly took
  What kind Mam-ma had bought her,
And out she went--and, only look!
  The wild March wind has caught her!

The silk tore up, the ribs broke out,
  In spite of Nel-ly's sway-ing;
And peo-ple laugh-ed at her, no doubt--
  That comes of dis-o-bey-ing.




"THE FLOW-ERS AP-PEAR ON THE EARTH."

(SONG OF SOLOMON, ii. 12.)


Now the win-ter cold is past,
  And blithe March winds are blow-ing,
In shel-ter-ed nooks we find at last
  Bright flow-ers of spring are grow-ing.

Along the hedge-row's mossy bank,
  Where ivy green is creep-ing,
We see through weeds and net-tles rank
  The dark-blue vi-o-let peep-ing.

And in the sun-ny gar-den beds
  Gay a-co-nites are show-ing,
And snow-drops bend their grace-ful heads,
  And cro-cus-es are glow-ing.

God makes the buds and leaves un-fold,
  All flow-ers are of His giv-ing;
He guards them through the win-ter's cold,
  He cares for all things liv-ing.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: WHO TORE IT?]

[Illustration: The E-mu in Aus-tra-lia's found,
Where the wild bush spreads far a-round.]



[Illustration: The ant-lered Elk comes pranc-ing forth
From the pine for-ests of the North.]

[Illustration: The Frog is of-ten-est to be seen
In grassy mea-dows, damp and green.]

[Illustration: The Fly-ing Fish can swim with ease,
Or flut-ter o'er the tro-pic seas.]

[Illustration: THE LITTLE HERO.]

[Illustration: BLOWING BUBBLES.]

[Illustration]



JUMP! PUS-SY!


Pus-sy, jump! for all the day
You have time e-nough to play;
Though at night, in barn and house,
You must watch for rat or mouse.

Pus-sy, jump! and if you do,
We will pour some milk for you;
Pus-sy, you shall be ca-ressed,
If you try and jump your best.




BLOW-ING BUB-BLES.


  Har-ry and Tom, the o-ther day,
  Went out in-to the yard to play;
Their great de-light, in wea-ther bright,
  Is blow-ing bub-bles with pipes of clay.

  Tom took a ba-sin deep and wide,
  And Har-ry brought his mug be-side;
They fil-led them quite with soap-suds white,
  And each to blow the big-gest tried.

  Poor Tom, he blew with might and main,
  And so, of course, he blew in vain;
For all his trou-ble he made no bub-ble,
  But Tom was brave and tried a-gain.

  Till Har-ry said, "Dear Tom, you see,
  You blow too hard; now--look at me.
There! that will rise to-ward the skies,
  And float a-bove the li-lac tree."




A-PRIL SHOW-ERS.

"Thou makest the earth soft with show-ers: Thou bless-est the spring-ing
there-of."--PSALM lxv. 10.


When A-pril skies be-gin to frown,
And the cold rain comes pelt-ing down,
We must not grum-ble nor com-plain,
Nor i-dly say, we hate the rain.

God sends the rain; the dust-y ground
It soft-ens in the fields a-round;
The mois-ture ev-e-ry plant re-ceives,
And springs a-fresh in flow-ers and leaves.

Should God for-bid the show-ers to fall,
Nor send us any rain at all,
The ground would all grow hard and dry,
And ev-e-ry liv-ing plant would die.

All things would starve and per-ish then--
No food for birds, nor beasts, nor men;
Then do not mur-mur, nor com-plain,
God, in His good-ness, sends the rain.



[Illustration]

[Illustration: "SNAP, BE GOOD!"]




"SNAP, BE GOOD!"


"Dear lit-tle Snap, you fun-ny pup,
  I love to see you beg,
So cle-ver-ly do you sit up
  And bend each slen-der leg,
    Drop-ping the paw;
And raise your ears a-bove your head,
  Look-ing so very wise;
You seem to know I have some bread;
  And then, such bright green eyes
    I never saw.

"Your shag-gy coat is long and rough,
  Your tail is rough-er still;
Now, Snap, I think you've had e-nough,
  And more would make you ill--
    In-deed it would.
But sis-ter Lot-ty has some cake,
  And so if you will sit
Quite still and good, till I say 'Take!'
  Then you shall have a bit;
    So, Snap, be good!"




THE STRAY KIT-TEN.


"Come, Kit-ty, come; you need not fear,
  Nor make that plain-tive mew;
Don't be a-fraid, but ven-ture near,
And lap the milk we bring you here,
  For none will in-jure you.

"And, Kit-ty, since you've lost your way,
  You need no fur-ther roam;
But stop, and dine with us to-day,
And then, if you would wish to stay,
  Poor Kit-ty, here's your home.

"And we will feed you fine and fat,
  On fresh new milk and nice;
And, when you grow to be a cat,
You can re-quite us well for that,
  By catch-ing all the mice."



[Illustration: Where the wide wastes of o-cean lie,
The greed-y Gan-net loves to fly.]

[Illustration: Though ve-nom-ous, as authors write,
The Gek-ko is not known to bite.]

[Illustration: The Ri-ver Horse a-mong the reeds
Of A-fric's lone-ly ri-vers feeds.]

[Illustration: A-round our coasts the fish-ers meet
With Had-docks, which, when dri-ed, we eat.]

[Illustration: THE STRAY KITTEN.]

[Illustration: THE FIRST OF MAY.]


[Illustration]



THE MAY-POLE.


  Round the May-pole, on the grass,
  Mer-ry lit-tle foot-steps pass;
  In the mid-dle Bes-sie stands,
  With the May-pole in her hands;
  While her play-mates dance and sing
  Round her in an end-less ring.
  Soon, in-deed, a feast they'll make,
  Cow-slip tea, with nice plum-cake--
And so our leave of them we'll take.




THE FIRST OF MAY.


The haw-thorn blos-som, snow-y white,
  Hangs thick upon the hedge to-day;
With many flow-ers the fields are bright
  Upon this mer-ry First of May.

So let us ga-ther flow-er-ets fair,
  And blos-soms from the haw-thorn spray,
To deck our May-pole stand-ing there,
  Upon this mer-ry First of May.

And then, like fai-ries, in a ring,
  A-round it we will dance or play,
And all our glad-dest songs will sing
  Upon this mer-ry First of May.

And dear-est Maud shall there be seen
  With crown of haw-thorn blos-soms gay,
And she shall be our lit-tle queen,
  Upon this mer-ry First of May.




UNI-VER-SAL PRAISE.


See how na-ture now re-joices
  In this sun-ny month of May;
Still to God from all its voices
  Giv-ing prais-es day by day.
In the glad green wood-land al-leys
  Ev-e-ry bird its an-them trills!
While flocks feed-ing in the val-leys,
  Herds up-on a thou-sand hills,
Join with ev-ery crea-ture liv-ing,
  Here on land, in air, or sea,
In one great world-wide thanks-giv-ing,
  Yield-ing praise, O God, to Thee!
All a-round us swells the cho-rus
  From this good-ly world of ours,
And earth's al-tar stands be-fore us
  Sweet with in-cense from her flow-ers.
So, with Na-ture still con-fess-ing
  His great good-ness, let us pay
Grate-ful hom-age for each bless-ing
  Of this sun-ny month of May.



[Illustration]

[Illustration: LOST LABOUR.]

[Illustration: The sa-cred I-bis, we are told,
The E-gyp-tians much re-vered of old]

[Illustration: The I-gua-na's flesh is sweet and good;
It haunts the riv-er and the wood.]

[Illustration: On hin-der legs and tail so strong,
The slim Jer-boa bounds a-long.]

[Illustration: A row of prick-les, long and keen,
On the John-Do-ry's back is seen.]

[Illustration: WASHING MY CHILDREN.]

[Illustration: TAKING CARE OF BABY]


[Illustration]



THE DAN-DE-LION CLOCK.

The dan-de-lion blos-soms gay
From the fields have passed away,
And in their place left heads of grey.
Now, Min-nie, won't it be good fun
For each of us to ga-ther one,
And sit and blow them in the sun?
Very hard we both must blow,
And scat-ter all the seeds like snow,
That will be 'one o'clock,' you know."




TAK-ING CARE OF BA-BY.


Lit-tle, help-less ba-by dear,
  While with-in your cot you lie,
Sis-ter May is sit-ting near--
  She will sing your lul-la-by.

When at last you fall a-sleep,
  Not the slight-est noise she'll make;
Quiet as a mouse she'll keep,
  Lest she should her dar-ling wake.

May will watch you well, for though
  She can play and prat-tle too,
'Tis not very long ago
  Since she was a babe like you.

Then mam-ma o'er lit-tle May
  Day and night her watch would keep;
May her care can now re-pay,
  Watch-ing ba-by whilst a-sleep.




SUM-MER FLOW-ERS.

"The de-sert shall re-joice, and blos-som as the rose."--ISAIAH XXXV. I.


Be-hold the flow-ers of June! how fair
  And bright their buds ap-pear,
As, open-ing to the sum-mer air,
  Our eyes and hearts they cheer!

Who would have thought there could a-bound
  Such beau-ty and de-light
Be-neath the cold and win-try ground
  That hid those flow-ers from sight?

That pow-er which made and governs all--
  The might-y pow-er of God--
A-lone could life and beau-ty call
  Out of the life-less sod.

And He, who from the Win-ter's gloom
  Can Sum-mer thus dis-close,
Shall one day make the de-sert bloom,
  And blos-som as the rose.



[Illustration]

[Illustration: "WHERE'S DICK-EY?"]




"WHERE'S DICK-EY?"

"Look there!" lit-tle Lot-ty cried,
"Dick-ey's cage is o-pen wide,
And, I fear, he's not in-side. Cou-sin John,
Do please stand up-on this chair,
Just to see if he is there.
Pret-ty Dick, I won-der where
     You are gone!

"Naugh-ty puss, your jaws, you lick!
Have you eat-en lit-tle Dick?
That would be a cru-el trick! No, I see
Pret-ty Dick has flown a-way,
And is sing-ing blithe and gay,
Sit-ting yon-der on a spray
     Of the tree.

"Well, I too should think it wrong,
If a gi-ant, tall and strong,
Just to hear my lit-tle song ev-ery day,
Shut _me_ in a cage; and yet
Thus I did my lit-tle pet---
So he must be glad to get
     Safe a-way."




PLAY-ING AT OM-NI-BUS.


Says Hu-bert, "Look, how fast it pours!
I'm sure we can't go out of doors
  While it is rain-ing thus;
So let us in the nur-se-ry stay,
To have a mer-ry game, and play
  At driv-ing om-ni-bus.

"Flo-ra and Ted-dy, you must be
The horses, and be driv-en by me.
  Mind you go stea-dy--do!
A place for Char-lie we shall find;
To guard the 'bus he'll ride be-hind,
  And take the mon-ey too.

"Dick, with pa-pa's old hat to wear,
Looks just the thing to be a fare
  Who wants to ride with us.
Jump up, sir! Six-pence all the way!
Gee, gee, you horses! Gee, I say!"--
  Off goes the om-ni-bus!



[Illustration: With wings scarce mov-ing, through the sky,
The lazy Kite is seen to fly.]

[Illustration: The Kan-ga-roo a poc-ket wears,
In which her lit-tle ones she bears.]

[Illustration: The Liz-ard in the sun's warm rays
De-lights to bask on summer days.]

[Illustration: The Lam-prey, in the Se-vern caught,
Was once the first of dain-ties thought.]

[Illustration: PLAYING AT OMNIBUS.]

[Illustration: ON THE WATER.]

[Illustration]



GA-THER-ING POP-PIES.


Through the corn the chil-dren creep,
Where the nod-ding pop-pies sleep,
Fill-ing hands and a-prons white
With the scar-let blos-soms bright.
Gau-dy pop-pies must not stay
Till the fu-ture har-vest day:
They would wi-ther when the heat
Ri-pens all the gold-en wheat--
Life for them is short and sweet.




ON THE WA-TER.

In our lit-tle boat to glide
On the wa-ter blue and wide,
While the sky is smooth and bright,
What could give us more de-light?
See the rip-ples, how they run,
Twink-ling bright-ly in the sun;
While re-flect-ed we can see
Sha-dows of each hill and tree.
See the li-lies, round and large,
Float-ing near the reed-y marge,
Where the bul-rush has its place
And the hea-vy wa-ter-mace.
See the great green dra-gon-fly,
And the swal-low skim-ming by.
See the fish-es spring and gleam,
Ere they splash in-to the stream,
See the bright king-fish-er too
Dart a gleam of green and blue.
These are all a-round our boat
On the wa-ter whilst we float.




HURT-FUL WEEDS.

"Ev-e-ry plant, which My hea-ven-ly
Fa-ther hath not plant-ed, shall be root-ed
up."--ST. MATT. XV. 13.


Though in the corn that waves a-round
  Are thorns, and many hurt-ful weeds,
That spring in e-ven good-ly ground
  And plant-ed thick with choic-est seeds;

Though in our hearts, how-e-ver taught
  And trained to guard them-selves from sin,
The good is mixed with evil thought
  Our en-e-my has sown there-in,

God's plant-ing shall not be o'er-thrown
  By world-ly weeds that cling a-bout
His corn; and what He hath not sown
  Shall in His time be root-ed out.

Then, that our lives may yield their fruit,
  Still let it be our con-stant prayer,
That God from out our hearts will root
  All seeds He hath not plant-ed there.



[Illustration]

[Illustration: THE BUT-TER-FLY.]



THE BUT-TER-FLY.


A yel-low But-ter-fly one day,
  Grown tired of play and tired of fly-ing,
Up-on a this-tle blos-som grey
  With out-spread wings was i-dly ly-ing.

The stur-dy bees went hum-ming by,
  Draw-ing sweet ho-ney from the clo-ver,
Nor stir-red the yel-low But-ter-fly,
  For he was but an i-dle ro-ver.

Two lit-tle girls, named Anne and May,
  Came by with mirth and laugh-ter ring-ing,
Anne ran to seize the in-sect gay--
  May fol-low-ed fast and ceased her sing-ing.

"Oh! dar-ling An-nie, let it be,
  Your touch will rob its plumes of beau-ty;
And God, who made both you and me,
  Has taught us kind-ness is a du-ty."




"GO A-WAY, RO-VER!"

"You big black dog, go, go a-way!
  I will not let you bite
My lit-tle pet; it can-not play,
  You gave it such a fright!

"I think you want to eat it up
  Be-cause it is so small,
But if you dare to touch my pup
  For help I mean to call;

"And then pa-pa will bring a stick,
  And make you run a-way;
So, Ro-ver, you had best go quick,
  And leave us here to play!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Why, Ro-ver, is quite good and tame--
  You need not be a-fraid;
He on-ly wants to have a game,
  You sil-ly lit-tle maid!



[Illustration: In sum-mer time, a-long our coasts.
The Mack-a-rel swarm in count-less hosts.]

[Illustration: We all at Mon-keys love to gaze,
And watch their fun-ny tricks and ways.]

[Illustration: A bird so fool-ish is the Nod-dy,
It may be caught by a-ny-bo-dy.]

[Illustration: The harm-less Newt is to be seen
In stag-nant ponds, with duck-weed green.]

[Illustration:"GO AWAY, ROVER!"]

[Illustration: LUCY AND ARTHUR.]


[Illustration]



THE RUSH PA-RA-SOL.


"Oh, come to the brook, sis-ter Kate,
  Oh, come with me, Het-ty and Gus,
Where rush-es, so long and so straight,
  Are grow-ing in thou-sands for us!"

Thus cries, to the rest, lit-tle May;
  And off to the mea-dow go all--
For nurse has just shown her the way
  Of mak-ing a rush pa-ra-sol.

LU-CY AND AR-THUR.


The day was fine, the sun was hot,
  So Lu-cy took her pail and spade,
And went to find a nice dry spot
  Where wells and cas-tles might be made.

But all the shore just then was wet,
  So Lu-cy took off shoes and socks;
She knew that nurse would fume and fret
  If they got spoilt by sand or rocks.

But Ar-thur was so strong and big,
  He thought that he was quite a man,
And he, in boots, would stand and dig,
  Which proved a very fool-ish plan.

For soon his boots got wet and cold,
  And hurt his feet, and made him cry;
He had to sit and hear nurse scold,
  While both his boots were put to dry.

THE PRO-VI-DENCE OF GOD.

"The Lord shall give that which is good,
and our land shall yield her increase."--PSALM lxxxv. 12.


The seed was sown long months a-go,
And, through the win-ter's cold and snow,
We trust-ed that God's care would bring
The green and ten-der blade in spring,
Which che-rished by the sun and rain
Of sum-mer, now has yield-ed grain
In au-tumn, when the reap-er leaves
His cot to cut and bind the sheaves,
And load with them the nod-ding wain
Which bears them home-ward from the plain.

So God's great mer-cies thus a-bound;
His love still brings the sea-sons round;
His bless-ings fill our hap-py fields,
And all our land its in-crease yields:
So if we serve Him as we should,
Our Lord will give us all things good;
And He who doth the ra-vens feed
Much more will give us all we need!


[Illustration]

[Illustration: PLAY-ING A-MONG THE SHEAVES.]




PLAY-ING A-MONG THE SHEAVES.

Oh, who could there be
More mer-ry than we,
  On this bright har-vest morn.
As we fro-lic and play,
While we hide a-way,
  A-mong the sheaves of corn?

We may fro-lic still
Wher-e-ver we will,
  But yet we must not tread
To waste with our feet
The grains of the wheat--
  The wheat that makes our bread.

For God, as we need,
Gives the corn to feed
  And make us well and strong;
And to waste in vain
His gift of the grain
  Would grieve Him, and be wrong.




KEEP-ING SCHOOL.


Oh, tell me if e-ver you knew
  A teach-er who looked so se-vere
As sis-ter Ma-ri-a can do,
  When les-sons she's go-ing to hear?

Just look how she holds up her cane
  And frowns, as she threat-ens each one!
But yet they'll not cry or com-plain,
  Be-cause it is only in fun.

The dunce's cap Dol-ly must wear,
  Her task was not learnt very well;
And now lit-tle Jane, I de-clare,
  Pre-tends she's un-a-ble to spell.

Yet sis-ter may hold up her cane,
  And though they'll look so-lemn, each one,
From laugh-ter they scarce can re-frain.
  Be-cause it is only in fun.



[Illustration: In i-vy, tree, or barn, or tow-er
The Owl a-waits the e-ven-ing hour.]

[Illustration: The fish-ing Ot-ter may be found
In streams which flow through Eng-lish ground.]

[Illustration: Be-neath the ri-ver's sedg-y side
The sav-age Pike de-lights to hide.]

[Illustration: In cav-ern pools, in end-less night,
The poor blind Pro-teus shuns the light.]

[Illustration: KEEPING SCHOOL.]

[Illustration: MILKING-TIME.]


[Illustration]



SNAP AP-PLE.


"Come, while it spins round, try your luck;
  Come, E-thel, and Kate, and your bro-thers!
On two ends two ap-ples are stuck,
  And an on-ion on each of the o-thers.
Be ready, and snap as they pass,
  Be quick, if you mean to be right,
Or not the sweet ap-ples, a-las!
  'Twill be, but the on-ions, you'll bite."




MILK-ING TIME.

Through the long day the cows are seen
  All graz-ing as they go,
Wan-der-ing a-long the mea-dows green
  Where yel-low hawk-weeds grow.

But when the clock with-in the tower
  Strikes five, they al-ways pace
Slow-ly--for well they know the hour--
  Home to the milk-ing place.

Then in the yard quite still they stand,
  Swing-ing their la-zy tails,
Where Ann and Su-san are at hand
  With stools and milk-ing pails

I love to see the white milk flow,
  And in the pail froth up;
And Ann, who is so kind, I know,
  Will let me fill my cup.




AU-TUMN.

"Be glad then, and re-joice in the Lord your God."--JOEL ii. 23.


'Tis au-tumn now; the corn is cut,
  But o-ther gifts for us are spread,
The pur-ple plum, the ripe brown nut,
  And pears and ap-ples, streaked with red,
A-mong the dark-green branch-es shine,
  Or on the grass be-neath them fall;
While full green clus-ters deck the vine
  That trails o'er trel-lis, roof, and wall.

In our dear land the la-den trees
  Be-speak God's pro-vi-dence and love;
He sends all need-ful gifts like these
  For those who trust in Him a-bove.
How good is He to make such choice
  Of plea-sant fruits for us to grow!
'Tis meet, in-deed, that we re-joice
  In Him who loves His chil-dren so.


[Illustration: BE GLAD THEN, AND
REJOICE IN THE LORD YOUR GOD.
JOEL II. 23]

[Illustration: THE SQUIR-REL.]




THE SQUIR-REL.


"Squir-rel, squir-rel, brown and brisk,
  High a-bove me in the tree,
I can see you bound and frisk,
  I can see you peep at me.

"Squir-rel, squir-rel, you can play;
  Mer-rier beast is none than you;
Yet you are not only gay,
  You are wise and mer-ry too.

You can play till sum-mer's o'er,
  And the nuts come fall-ing free,
Then to hoard your win-ter store
  You are busy as a bee.

"Squir-rel, squir-rel, I would bound
  Gai-ly at my sports as you,
And, like you, I would be found
  Care-ful for the fu-ture too."




"CON-TRA-RY WINDS"


Both Tom and Will had e-qual skill
  In mak-ing lit-tle boats and ships;
They cut a-way a whole half day,
  And co-vered all the floor with chips.

And when the boys had made their toys,
  They thought to put them to the test--
To try which boat, when set a-float,
  Would sail a-cross a tub the best.

But Will and Tom, each blow-ing from
  A dif-fe-rent side, you well may guess,
No boats could go straight on, and so
  They tacked a-bout in great dis-tress.

Such heavy gales a-gainst their sails
  Made both the boats go whirl-ing round;
The sails got wet, the boats up-set,
  And all the crew on board were drowned.

[Illustration: When the warm sum-mer days draw near,
From south-ern climes the Quails ap-pear.]

[Illustration: South Afric's plains the Quag-gas roam,
Re-mote from farm or set-tler's home.]


[Illustration: The fish-er-man the Roach may hook,
In quiet pond or gentle brook.]

[Illustration: When the fell Rat-tle-snake slides near,
The In-dian may its rat-tle hear.]

[Illustration: "CONTRARY WINDS."]

[Illustration: NAUGHTY DICK.]


[Illustration]



BAT-TLE-DORE AND SHUT-TLE-COCK.


See these mer-ry chil-dren four,
Now their les-son time is o'er,
Deal-ing with the bat-tle-dore
  Steady blow on blow;

Till the fea-thered shut-tle-cocks
Fly at their al-ter-nate knocks,
"Re-gu-lar as kitch-en clocks,"
  Spin-ning to and fro.

[Illustration: OUR GOD IS MERCIFUL.

PSALM CXVI. 5]

[Illustration: CUT-TING NAMES.]




CUT-TING NAMES.


See where the spread-ing beech has made
Be-neath its boughs a plea-sant shade
  To screen them from the sun;
There George, and Anne, and Ma-ry play,
Or read up-on each sun-ny day,
  When all their tasks are done.

George has pulled out his knife, you see,
And on the smooth-barked beech-en tree
  Has some-thing found to do;
He's carv-ing deep, and plain, and well
The let-ters, one by one, which spell
  His name and An-nie's too.

His sis-ter An-nie, stand-ing by,
Is watch-ing with a cu-ri-ous eye,
  And won-der-ing at his skill.
To men and wo-men when they grow,
They'll come and find the beech tree show
  Those names quite plain-ly still.




THE CON-CERT.


"See how it rains! We can-not go
Our walk a-cross the fields; and so,
Since Tom and Et-tie Holmes are come,
And cous-in Fred has brought his drum,
And some can sing, and o-thers play,
We'll have a con-cert here to-day.
You, Tom, must in the mid-dle stand,
And mark the time, with stick in hand;
You, bro-ther Ben, the tongs must take,
For they will good tri-an-gles make;
Hal clicks the 'bones,' and Em-me-line
Will beat her lit-tle tam-bour-ine,
And cous-in Fred will drum a-way,
And Kate the con-cer-ti-na play.
All must at-tend to Tom; and mind
None play too fast, nor lag be-hind;
And then, I'm sure, we all shall see
How grand a con-cert this will be,
And say this is the wis-est way
To spend this wet Oc-to-ber day."


[Illustration: The long-billed Snipe fre-quents our clime
About the chil-ly au-tumn time.]

[Illustration: The Ti-ger, from his hid-den lair,
Springs on the tra-vel-ler un-a-ware.]

[Illustration: The U-rano-sco-pus hides a-mong
The mud, and an-gles with its tongue.]

[Illustration: Though gay and pleas-ing to the sight,
The Vi-per has a dead-ly bite.]

[Illustration: THE CONCERT.]

[Illustration: CAUGHT IN THE FOG.]


[Illustration]



PLAY-ING WITH WOOD-EN BRICKS.


An In-di-an tem-ple on the floor
  The chil-dren build with wood-en bricks,
They've placed two pil-lars by the door,
  And on the roof they now would fix
A good tall spire, so Et-ty takes
  A long-er brick, and sets it there;
And though when-e'er we walk it shakes,
  It will not tum-ble, I de-clare!




CAUGHT IN THE FOG.

Anne and Jane will long re-mem-her
How, one morn-ing in No-vem-ber,
As they both were home-ward stroll-ing,
Round the Lon-don fog came roll-ing--
First, a yel-low dark-ness fall-ing,
Then a noise of link-boys call-ing,
Cab, and 'bus, and cart-wheels rum-bling,
Hor-ses on the pave-ment stum-bling,
Peo-ple, in the smoke and smo-ther,
Run-ning up a-gainst each other,
No one see-ing, much less know-ing,
Whi-ther he or she was go-ing.
Little Jane clung to her sis-ter,
While Anne com-fort-ed and kissed her,
For the girls felt bro-ken-heart-ed,
Fear-ing lest they should be part-ed.
So they were when Char-lie found them,
Lost a-mid the crowd a-round them,
But so glad when they es-pied him,
And came trip-ping home beside him.




TRUST IN GOD.

"He ma-keth light-nings for the rain;
He bring-eth the wind out of His trea-sur-ies."--Ps. CXXXV. 7.


Our God who reign-est up on high,
Though light-nings flash a-cross the sky,
And howl-ing tem-pests hur-ry by,
We fear not these, for Thou art nigh
  To all who trust in Thee.

Though now the sky is o-ver-cast,
And hea-vy rains are fall-ing fast,
And storm and sleet go driv-ing past,
And day by day the moan-ing blast
  Sweeps dead leaves from the tree,

No-vem-ber time, that seems so drear,
When days are dark and win-ter near,
Will pass at length, and Christ-mas cheer
The last hours of the dy-ing year
  With song and dance and mirth.

And in due time Thy mighty pow-er
Will give the spring, with sun and shower,
The o-pen-ing leaf, the ear-ly flow-er,
And birds in e-ve-ry wood-land bow-er
  Will sing to glad-den earth.


[Illustration: HE MAKETH LIGHTNINGS
FOR THE RAIN; HE BRINGETH THE
WIND OUT OF HIS TREASURIES.

PSALM CXXXV. 7.]

[Illustration: HOME FROM SCHOOL.]




HOME FROM SCHOOL.

Come, Meg and El-len, don't com-plain,
For, see, the geese en-joy the rain,
  And dog-gie does not fret;
    And yet,
The drops come rol-ling down his ears,
And nose, and whisk-ers, just like tears;
  Poor Mop, he's drip-ping wet!
Our big um-brel-la co-vers three,
And snug and dry we all may be,
  And chat-ter as we go,
    And show
The grumb-ling peo-ple whom we meet
That nei-ther wind, nor driv-ing sleet,
  Can spoil our tem-pers.--No,
We will not take such days as this,
Nor any-thing God sends, a-miss,
  But what we can-not cure
    Endure;
And this will prove a Gold-en Rule
To prac-tise as we walk from school--
  Of that we may be sure.




THE KIT-TENS' BATH.


One day when Lil-lie saw her cat
  Sit down and lick a kit-ten's face;
"No, puss," said she, "don't wash like that--
  My bath will be the pro-per place.

"I'll show you how to wash them, puss."
  So in she dipped them one by one;
Poor Min-nie mewed and made a fuss,
  But Lil-lie only thought it fun.

Puss feared her lit-tle kits would drown,
  And did her best to get them out;
While Lil-lie dipped them up and down,
  And splashed the wa-ter all a-bout.

Till nurse came up and saw the mess,
  Took out the kit-tens, and instead
Made thought-less Lil-lie quite un-dress,
  And have her bath and go to bed.



[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a nose,
    Who said, "If you choose to suppose
    That my nose is too long, you are certainly wrong!"
    That remarkable Man with a nose.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Person of Smyrna,
    Whose Grandmother threatened to burn her;
    But she seized on the Cat, and said, "Granny, burn that!
    You incongruous Old Woman of Smyrna!"

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man on a hill,
    Who seldom, if ever, stood still;
    He ran up and down in his Grandmother's gown,
    Which adorned that Old Man on a hill.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Chili,
    Whose conduct was painful and silly;
    He sate on the stairs, eating apples and pears,
    That imprudent Old Person of Chili.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a gong,
    Who bumped at it all the day long;
    But they called out, "Oh, law! you're a horrid old bore!"
    So they smashed that Old Man with a gong.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Kilkenny,
    Who never had more than a penny;
    He spent all that money in onions and honey,
    That wayward Old Man of Kilkenny.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Columbia,
    Who was thirsty, and called out for some beer;
    But they brought it quite hot, in a small copper pot,
    Which disgusted that man of Columbia.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man in a tree,
    Who was horribly bored by a Bee;
    When they said, "Does it buzz?" he replied, "Yes, it does!
    It's a regular brute of a Bee."

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Lady of Chertsey,
    Who made a remarkable curtsey;
    She twirled round and round, till she sank underground,
    Which distressed all the people of Chertsey.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady whose chin
    Resembled the point of a pin;
    So she had it made sharp, and purchased a harp,
    And played several tunes with her chin.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a flute,--
    A "sarpint" ran into his boot!
    But he played day and night, till the "sarpint" took flight,
    And avoided that Man with a flute.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Portugal,
    Whose ideas were excessively nautical;
    She climbed up a tree to examine the sea,
    But declared she would never leave Portugal.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Ischia,
    Whose conduct grew friskier and friskier;
    He danced hornpipes and jigs, and ate thousands of figs,
    That lively Old Person of Ischia

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Vienna,
    Who lived upon Tincture of Senna;
    When that did not agree, he took Camomile Tea,
    That nasty Old Man of Vienna.

    [Illustraion]

    There was an Old Man in a boat,
    Who said, "I'm afloat! I'm afloat!"
    When they said, "No, you ain't!" he was ready to faint,
    That unhappy Old Man in a boat.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Buda,
    Whose conduct grew ruder and ruder,
    Till at last with a hammer they silenced his clamor.
    By smashing that Person of Buda.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Moldavia,
    Who had the most curious behavior;
    For while he was able, he slept on a table,
    That funny Old Man of Moldavia.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Hurst,
    Who drank when he was not athirst;
    When they said, "You'll grow fatter!" he answered "What matter?"
    That globular Person of Hurst.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Madras,
    Who rode on a cream-colored Ass;
    But the length of its ears so promoted his fears,
    That it killed that Old Man of Madras.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Dover,
    Who rushed through a field of blue clover;
    But some very large Bees stung his nose and his knees,
    So he very soon went back to Dover.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Leeds,
    Whose head was infested with beads;
    She sat on a stool and ate gooseberry-fool,
    Which agreed with that Person of Leeds.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Cadiz,
    Who was always polite to all ladies;
    But in handing his daughter, he fell into the water,
    Which drowned that Old Person of Cadiz.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Isles,
    Whose face was pervaded with smiles;
    He sang "High dum diddle," and played on the fiddle,
    That amiable Man of the Isles.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Basing,
    Whose presence of mind was amazing;
    He purchased a steed, which he rode at full speed,
    And escaped from the people of Basing.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man who supposed
    That the street door was partially closed;
    But some very large Rats ate his coats and his hats,
    While that futile Old Gentleman dozed.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person whose habits
    Induced him to feed upon Rabbits;
    When he'd eaten eighteen, he turned perfectly green,
    Upon which he relinquished those habits.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the West,
    Who wore a pale plum-colored vest;
    When they said, "Does it fit?" he replied, "Not a bit!"
    That uneasy Old Man of the West.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Marseilles,
    Whose daughters wore bottle-green veils:
    They caught several Fish, which they put in a dish,
    And sent to their Pa at Marseilles.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Wrekin,
    Whose shoes made a horrible creaking;
    But they said, "Tell us whether your shoes are of leather,
    Or of what, you Old Man of the Wrekin?"

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady whose nose
    Was so long that it reached to her toes;
    So she hired an Old Lady, whose conduct was steady,
    To carry that wonderful nose.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Norway,
    Who casually sat in a doorway;
    When the door squeezed her flat, she exclaimed, "What of that?"
    This courageous Young Lady of Norway.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Apulia,
    Whose conduct was very peculiar;
    He fed twenty sons upon nothing but buns,
    That whimsical Man of Apulia.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Quebec,--
    A beetle ran over his neck;
    But he cried, "With a needle I'll slay you, O beadle!"
    That angry Old Man of Quebec.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Bute,
    Who played on a silver-gilt flute;
    She played several jigs to her Uncle's white Pigs:
    That amusing Young Lady of Bute.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Philoe,
    Whose conduct was scroobious and wily;
    He rushed up a Palm when the weather was calm,
    And observed all the ruins of Philoe.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a poker,
    Who painted his face with red ochre.
    When they said, "You 're a Guy!" he made no reply,
    But knocked them all down with his poker.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Prague,
    Who was suddenly seized with the plague;
    But they gave him some butter, which caused him to mutter,
    And cured that Old Person of Prague.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Peru,
    Who watched his wife making a stew;
    But once, by mistake, in a stove she did bake
    That unfortunate Man of Peru.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the North,
    Who fell into a basin of broth;
    But a laudable cook fished him out with a hook,
    Which saved that Old Man of the North.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Troy,
    Whose drink was warm brandy and soy,
    Which he took with a spoon, by the light of the moon,
    In sight of the city of Troy.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Mold,
    Who shrank from sensations of cold;
    So he purchased some muffs, some furs, and some fluffs,
    And wrapped himself well from the cold.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Tring,
    Who embellished his nose with a ring;
    He gazed at the moon every evening in June,
    That ecstatic Old Person of Tring.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Nepaul,
    From his horse had a terrible fall;
    But, though split quite in two, with some very strong glue
    They mended that man of Nepaul.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Nile,
    Who sharpened his nails with a file,
    Till he cut off his thumbs, and said calmly, "This comes
    Of sharpening one's nails with a file!"

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of th' Abruzzi,
    So blind that he couldn't his foot see;
    When they said, "That's your toe," he replied, "Is it so?"
    That doubtful Old Man of th' Abruzzi.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Calcutta,
    Who perpetually ate bread and butter;
    Till a great bit of muffin, on which he was stuffing,
    Choked that horrid Old Man of Calcutta.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Rhodes,
    Who strongly objected to toads;
    He paid several cousins to catch them by dozens,
    That futile Old Person of Rhodes.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the South,
    Who had an immoderate mouth;
    But in swallowing a dish that was quite full of Fish,
    He was choked, that Old Man of the South.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Melrose,
    Who walked on the tips of his toes;
    But they said, "It ain't pleasant to see you at present,
    You stupid Old Man of Melrose."

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Dee,
    Who was sadly annoyed by a Flea;
    When he said, "I will scratch it!" they gave him a hatchet,
    Which grieved that Old Man of the Dee.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Lucca,
    Whose lovers completely forsook her;
    She ran up a tree, and said "Fiddle-de-dee!"
    Which embarrassed the people of Lucca.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Coblenz,
    The length of whose legs was immense;
    He went with one prance from Turkey to France,
    That surprising Old Man of Coblenz.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Bohemia,
    Whose daughter was christened Euphemia;
    But one day, to his grief, she married a thief,
    Which grieved that Old Man of Bohemia.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Corfu,
    Who never knew what he should do;
    So he rushed up and down, till the sun made him brown,
    That bewildered Old Man of Corfu.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Vesuvius,
    Who studied the works of Vitruvius;
    When the flames burnt his book, to drinking he took,
    That morbid Old Man of Vesuvius.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Dundee,
    Who frequented the top of a tree;
    When disturbed by the Crows, he abruptly arose,
    And exclaimed, "I'll return to Dundee!"

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Lady whose folly
    Induced her to sit in a holly;
    Whereon, by a thorn her dress being torn,
    She quickly became melancholy.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man on some rocks,
    Who shut his Wife up in a box:
    When she said, "Let me out," he exclaimed, "Without doubt
    You will pass all your life in that box."

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Rheims,
    Who was troubled with horrible dreams;
    So to keep him awake they fed him with cake,
    Which amused that Old Person of Rheims.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Leghorn,
    The smallest that ever was born;
    But quickly snapt up he was once by a Puppy,
    Who devoured that Old Man of Leghorn.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man in a pew,
    Whose waistcoat was spotted with blue;
    But he tore it in pieces, to give to his Nieces,
    That cheerful Old Man in a pew.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Jamaica,
    Who suddenly married a Quaker;
    But she cried out, "Oh, lack! I have married a black!"
    Which distressed that Old Man of Jamaica.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man who said, "How
    Shall I flee from this horrible Cow?
    I will sit on this stile, and continue to smile,
    Which may soften the heart of that Cow."

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Troy,
    Whom several large flies did annoy;
    Some she killed with a thump, some she drowned at the pump,
    And some she took with her to Troy.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Hull,
    Who was chased by a virulent Bull;
    But she seized on a spade, and called out, "Who's afraid?"
    Which distracted that virulent Bull.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Dutton,
    Whose head was as small as a button;
    So to make it look big he purchased a wig,
    And rapidly rushed about Dutton.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man who said, "Hush!
    I perceive a young bird in this bush!"
    When they said, "Is it small?" he replied, "Not at all;
    It is four times as big as the bush!"

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Russia,
    Who screamed so that no one could hush her;
    Her screams were extreme,--no one heard such a scream
    As was screamed by that Lady of Russia.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Tyre,
    Who swept the loud chords of a lyre;
    At the sound of each sweep she enraptured the deep,
    And enchanted the city of Tyre.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Bangor,
    Whose face was distorted with anger;
    He tore off his boots, and subsisted on roots,
    That borascible Person of Bangor.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the East,
    Who gave all his children a feast;
    But they all ate so much, and their conduct was such,
    That it killed that Old Man of the East.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Coast,
    Who placidly sat on a post;
    But when it was cold he relinquished his hold,
    And called for some hot buttered toast.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Kamschatka,
    Who possessed a remarkably fat Cur;
    His gait and his waddle were held as a model
    To all the fat dogs in Kamschatka.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Gretna,
    Who rushed down the crater of Etna;
    When they said, "Is it hot?" he replied, "No, it's not!"
    That mendacious Old Person of Gretna.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a beard,
    Who sat on a Horse when he reared;
    But they said, "Never mind! you will fall off behind,
    You propitious Old Man with a beard!"

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Berlin,
    Whose form was uncommonly thin;
    Till he once, by mistake, was mixed up in a cake,
    So they baked that Old Man of Berlin.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the West,
    Who never could get any rest;
    So they set him to spin on his nose and his chin,
    Which cured that Old Man of the West.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Cheadle
    Was put in the stocks by the Beadle
    For stealing some pigs, some coats, and some wigs,
    That horrible person of Cheadle.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Anerley,
    Whose conduct was strange and unmannerly;
    He rushed down the Strand with a Pig in each hand,
    But returned in the evening to Anerley.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Wales,
    Who caught a large Fish without scales;
    When she lifted her hook, she exclaimed, "Only look!"
    That ecstatic Young Lady of Wales.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Welling,
    Whose praise all the world was a-telling;
    She played on the harp, and caught several Carp,
    That accomplished Young Lady of Welling.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Tartary,
    Who divided his jugular artery;
    But he screeched to his Wife, and she said, "Oh, my life!
    Your death will be felt by all Tartary!"

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Whitehaven,
    Who danced a quadrille with a Raven;
    But they said, "It's absurd to encourage this bird!"
    So they smashed that Old Man of Whitehaven.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Sweden,
    Who went by the slow train to Weedon;
    When they cried, "Weedon Station!" she made no observation,
    But thought she should go back to Sweden.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Chester,
    Whom several small children did pester;
    They threw some large stones, which broke most of his bones,
    And displeased that Old Person of Chester.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Cape,
    Who possessed a large Barbary Ape;
    Till the Ape, one dark night, set the house all alight,
    Which burned that Old Man of the Cape.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Burton,
    Whose answers were rather uncertain;
    When they said, "How d' ye do?" he replied, "Who are you?"
    That distressing Old Person of Burton.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Ems
    Who casually fell in the Thames;
    And when he was found, they said he was drowned,
    That unlucky Old Person of Ems.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Girl of Majorca,
    Whose Aunt was a very fast walker;
    She walked seventy miles, and leaped fifteen stiles,
    Which astonished that Girl of Majorca.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Poole,
    Whose soup was excessively cool;
    So she put it to boil by the aid of some oil,
    That ingenious Young Lady of Poole.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Lady of Prague,
    Whose language was horribly vague;
    When they said, "Are these caps?" she answered, "Perhaps!"
    That oracular Lady of Prague.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Parma,
    Whose conduct grew calmer and calmer:
    When they said, "Are you dumb?" she merely said, "Hum!"
    That provoking Young Lady of Parma.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Sparta,
    Who had twenty-five sons and one "darter;"
    He fed them on Snails, and weighed them in scales,
    That wonderful Person of Sparta.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man on whose nose
    Most birds of the air could repose;
    But they all flew away at the closing of day,
    Which relieved that Old Man and his nose.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Turkey,
    Who wept when the weather was murky;
    When the day turned out fine, she ceased to repine,
    That capricious Young Lady of Turkey.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Aôsta
    Who possessed a large Cow, but he lost her;
    But they said, "Don't you see she has run up a tree,
    You invidious Old Man of Aôsta?"

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Person of Crete,
    Whose toilette was far from complete;
    She dressed in a sack spickle-speckled with black,
    That ombliferous Person of Crete.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Clare,
    Who was madly pursued by a Bear;
    When she found she was tired, she abruptly expired,
    That unfortunate Lady of Clare.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Dorking,
    Who bought a large bonnet for walking;
    But its color and size so bedazzled her eyes,
    That she very soon went back to Dorking.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Cape Horn,
    Who wished he had never been born;
    So he sat on a Chair till he died of despair,
    That dolorous Man of Cape Horn.

[Illustration]

    There was an old Person of Cromer,
    Who stood on one leg to read Homer;
    When he found he grew stiff, he jumped over the cliff,
    Which concluded that Person of Cromer.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Hague,
    Whose ideas were excessively vague;
    He built a balloon to examine the moon,
    That deluded Old Man of the Hague.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Spain,
    Who hated all trouble and pain;
    So he sate on a chair with his feet in the air,
    That umbrageous Old Person of Spain.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man who said, "Well!
    Will _nobody_ answer this bell?
    I have pulled day and night, till my hair has grown white,
    But nobody answers this bell!"

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with an Owl,
    Who continued to bother and howl;
    He sat on a rail, and imbibed bitter ale,
    Which refreshed that Old Man and his Owl.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man in a casement,
    Who held up his hands in amazement;
    When they said, "Sir, you'll fall!" he replied, "Not at all!"
    That incipient Old Man in a casement.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Ewell,
    Who chiefly subsisted on gruel;
    But to make it more nice, he inserted some Mice,
    Which refreshed that Old Person of Ewell.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Peru.
    Who never knew what he should do;
    So he tore off his hair, and behaved like a bear,
    That intrinsic Old Man of Peru.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a beard,
    Who said, "It is just as I feared!--
    Two Owls and a Hen, four Larks and a Wren,
    Have all built their nests in my beard."

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady whose eyes
    Were unique as to color and size;
    When she opened them wide, people all turned aside,
    And started away in surprise.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Ryde,
    Whose shoe-strings were seldom untied;
    She purchased some clogs, and some small spotty Dogs,
    And frequently walked about Ryde.

[Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady whose bonnet
    Came untied when the birds sate upon it;
    But she said, "I don't care! all the birds in the air
    Are welcome to sit on my bonnet!"

﻿

                    I.

    The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to sea
      In a beautiful pea-green boat:
    They took some honey, and plenty of money
      Wrapped up in a five-pound note.
    The Owl looked up to the stars above,
      And sang to a small guitar,
   "O lovely Pussy, O Pussy, my love,
        What a beautiful Pussy you are,
          You are,
          You are!
      What a beautiful Pussy you are!"


                    II.

    Pussy said to the Owl, "You elegant fowl,
      How charmingly sweet you sing!
    Oh! let us be married; too long we have tarried:
      But what shall we do for a ring?"
    They sailed away, for a year and a day,
      To the land where the bong-tree grows;
    And there in a wood a Piggy-wig stood,
      With a ring at the end of his nose,
          His nose,
          His nose,
      With a ring at the end of his nose.


                    III.

    "Dear Pig, are you willing to sell for one shilling
      Your ring?" Said the Piggy, "I will."
    So they took it away, and were married next day
      By the Turkey who lives on the hill.
    They dined on mince and slices of quince,
      Which they ate with a runcible spoon;
    And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,
      They danced by the light of the moon,
          The moon,
          The moon,
    They danced by the light of the moon.

[Illustration]




THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    Said the Duck to the Kangaroo,
       "Good gracious! how you hop
    Over the fields, and the water too,
        As if you never would stop!
    My life is a bore in this nasty pond;
    And I long to go out in the world beyond:
        I wish I could hop like you,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.


                    II.

   "Please give me a ride on your back,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo:
   "I would sit quite still, and say nothing but 'Quack'
        The whole of the long day through;
    And we 'd go the Dee, and the Jelly Bo Lee,
    Over the land, and over the sea:
        Please take me a ride! oh, do!"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

              [Illustration]


                    III.

    Said the Kangaroo to the Duck,
       "This requires some little reflection.
    Perhaps, on the whole, it might bring me luck;
        And there seems but one objection;
    Which is, if you'll let me speak so bold,
    Your feet are unpleasantly wet and cold,
        And would probably give me the roo-
        Matiz," said the Kangaroo.

              [Illustration]


                    IV.

    Said the Duck, "As I sate on the rocks,
        I have thought over that completely;
    And I bought four pairs of worsted socks,
        Which fit my web-feet neatly;
    And, to keep out the cold, I've bought a cloak;
    And every day a cigar I'll smoke;
        All to follow my own dear true
        Love of a Kangaroo."


                    V.

    Said the Kangaroo, "I'm ready,
        All in the moonlight pale;
    But to balance me well, dear Duck, sit steady,
        And quite at the end of my tail."
    So away they went with a hop and a bound;
    And they hopped the whole world three times round.
        And who so happy, oh! who,
        As the Duck and the Kangaroo?

             [Illustration]




THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    Once Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
        Dressed in brown and gray,
    Walked about upon the sands
        Upon a summer's day:
    And there among the pebbles,
        When the wind was rather cold,
    He met with Mr. Floppy Fly,
        All dressed in blue and gold;
    And, as it was too soon to dine,
    They drank some periwinkle-wine,
    And played an hour or two, or more,
    At battlecock and shuttledore.


                    II.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        To Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "Why do you never come to court?
        I wish you 'd tell me why.
    All gold and shine, in dress so fine,
        You'd quite delight the court.
    Why do you never go at all?
        I really think you _ought_.
    And, if you went, you'd see such sights!
    Such rugs and jugs and candle-lights!
    And, more than all, the king and queen,--
    One in red, and one in green."


                    III.

    "O Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "It's true I never go to court;
        And I will tell you why.
    If I had six long legs like yours,
        At once I'd go to court;
    But, oh! I can't, because _my_ legs
        Are so extremely short.
    And I'm afraid the king and queen
    (One in red, and one in green)
    Would say aloud, 'You are not fit,
    You Fly, to come to court a bit!'"


                    IV.

    "Oh, Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "I wish you 'd sing one little song,
        One mumbian melody.
    You used to sing so awful well
        In former days gone by;
    But now you never sing at all:
        I wish you'd tell me why:
    For, if you would, the silvery sound
    Would please the shrimps and cockles round,
    And all the crabs would gladly come
    To hear you sing, 'Ah, Hum di Hum!'"


                    V.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
       "I can never sing again;
    And, if you wish, I'll tell you why,
        Although it gives me pain.
    For years I cannot hum a bit,
        Or sing the smallest song;
    And this the dreadful reason is,--
        My legs are grown too long!
    My six long legs, all here and there,
    Oppress my bosom with despair;
    And, if I stand or lie or sit,
    I cannot sing one single bit!"


                    VI.

    So Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Sat down in silence by the sea,
        And gazed upon the sky.
    They said, "This is a dreadful thing!
        The world has all gone wrong,
    Since one has legs too short by half,
        The other much too long.
    One never more can go to court,
    Because his legs have grown too short;
    The other cannot sing a song,
    Because his legs have grown too long!"


                    VII.

    Then Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Rushed downward to the foamy sea
        With one sponge-taneous cry:
    And there they found a little boat,
        Whose sails were pink and gray;
    And off they sailed among the waves,
        Far and far away:
    They sailed across the silent main,
    And reached the great Gromboolian Plain;
    And there they play forevermore
    At battlecock and shuttledore.

[Illustration]




THE JUMBLIES.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    They went to sea in a sieve, they did;
        In a sieve they went to sea:
    In spite of all their friends could say,
    On a winter's morn, on a stormy day,
        In a sieve they went to sea.
    And when the sieve turned round and round,
    And every one cried, "You'll all be drowned!"
    They called aloud, "Our sieve ain't big;
    But we don't care a button, we don't care a fig:
        In a sieve we'll go to sea!"
             Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
             Their heads are green, and their hands are blue
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     II.

    They sailed away in a sieve, they did,
        In a sieve they sailed so fast,
    With only a beautiful pea-green veil
    Tied with a ribbon, by way of a sail,
        To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
    And every one said who saw them go,
   "Oh! won't they be soon upset, you know?
    For the sky is dark, and the voyage is long;
    And, happen what may, it's extremely wrong
        In a sieve to sail so fast."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     III.

    The water it soon came in, it did;
        The water it soon came in:
    So, to keep them dry, they wrapped their feet
        In a pinky paper all folded neat;
    And they fastened it down with a pin.
    And they passed the night in a crockery-jar;
    And each of them said, "How wise we are!
    Though the sky be dark, and the voyage be long,
    Yet we never can think we were rash or wrong,
        While round in our sieve we spin."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     IV.

    And all night long they sailed away;
        And when the sun went down,
    They whistled and warbled a moony song
        To the echoing sound of a coppery gong,
    In the shade of the mountains brown.
   "O Timballoo! How happy we are
    When we live in a sieve and a crockery-jar!
    And all night long, in the moonlight pale,
    We sail away with a pea-green sail
        In the shade of the mountains brown."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     V.

    They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,--
        To a land all covered with trees:
    And they bought an owl, and a useful cart,
        And a pound of rice, and a cranberry-tart,
    And a hive of silvery bees;
    And they bought a pig, and some green jackdaws,
    And a lovely monkey with lollipop paws,
    And forty bottles of ring-bo-ree,
        And no end of Stilton cheese.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     VI.

    And in twenty years they all came back,--
        In twenty years or more;
    And every one said, "How tall they've grown!
        For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
    And the hills of the Chankly Bore."
    And they drank their health, and gave them a feast
    Of dumplings made of beautiful yeast;
    And every one said, "If we only live,
    We, too, will go to sea in a sieve,
        To the hills of the Chankly Bore."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.




THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    The Nutcrackers sate by a plate on the table;
        The Sugar-tongs sate by a plate at his side;
    And the Nutcrackers said, "Don't you wish we were able
        Along the blue hills and green meadows to ride?
    Must we drag on this stupid existence forever,
        So idle and weary, so full of remorse,
    While every one else takes his pleasure, and never
        Seems happy unless he is riding a horse?


                     II.

    "Don't you think we could ride without being instructed,
        Without any saddle or bridle or spur?
    Our legs are so long, and so aptly constructed,
        I'm sure that an accident could not occur.
    Let us all of a sudden hop down from the table,
        And hustle downstairs, and each jump on a horse!
    Shall we try? Shall we go? Do you think we are able?"
        The Sugar-tongs answered distinctly, "Of course!"


                     III.

    So down the long staircase they hopped in a minute;
        The Sugar-tongs snapped, and the Crackers said "Crack!"
    The stable was open; the horses were in it:
        Each took out a pony, and jumped on his back.
    The Cat in a fright scrambled out of the doorway;
        The Mice tumbled out of a bundle of hay;
    The brown and white Rats, and the black ones from Norway,
        Screamed out, "They are taking the horses away!"


                     IV.

    The whole of the household was filled with amazement:
        The Cups and the Saucers danced madly about;
    The Plates and the Dishes looked out of the casement;
        The Salt-cellar stood on his head with a shout;
    The Spoons, with a clatter, looked out of the lattice;
        The Mustard-pot climbed up the gooseberry-pies;
    The Soup-ladle peeped through a heap of veal-patties,
        And squeaked with a ladle-like scream of surprise.


                     V.

    The Frying-pan said, "It's an awful delusion!"
        The Tea-kettle hissed, and grew black in the face;
    And they all rushed downstairs in the wildest confusion
        To see the great Nutcracker-Sugar-tong race.
    And out of the stable, with screamings and laughter
        (Their ponies were cream-colored, speckled with brown),
    The Nutcrackers first, and the Sugar-tongs after;
        Rode all round the yard, and then all round the town.


                     VI.

    They rode through the street, and they rode by the station;
        They galloped away to the beautiful shore;
    In silence they rode, and "made no observation,"
        Save this: "We will never go back any more!"
    And still you might hear, till they rode out of hearing,
        The Sugar-tongs snap, and the Crackers say "Crack!"
    Till, far in the distance their forms disappearing,
        They faded away; and they never came back!




CALICO PIE.

[Illustration]

                     I.

      Calico pie,
      The little birds fly
    Down to the calico-tree:
      Their wings were blue,
      And they sang "Tilly-loo!"
      Till away they flew;
        And they never came back to me!
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me!


                     II.

      Calico jam,
      The little Fish swam
    Over the Syllabub Sea.
      He took off his hat
      To the Sole and the Sprat,
      And the Willeby-wat:
        But he never came back to me;
          He never came back,
          He never came back,
        He never came back to me.

               [Illustration]


                     III.

      Calico ban,
      The little Mice ran
    To be ready in time for tea;
      Flippity flup,
      They drank it all up,
      And danced in the cup:
        But they never came back to me;
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me.

               [Illustration]


                     IV.

      Calico drum,
      The Grasshoppers come,
    The Butterfly, Beetle, and Bee,
      Over the ground,
      Around and round,
      With a hop and a bound;
        But they never came back,
          They never came back,
          They never came back.
        They never came back to me.

               [Illustration]




MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    On a little piece of wood
    Mr. Spikky Sparrow stood:
    Mrs. Sparrow sate close by,
    A-making of an insect-pie
    For her little children five,
    In the nest and all alive;
    Singing with a cheerful smile,
    To amuse them all the while,
       "Twikky wikky wikky wee,
        Wikky bikky twikky tee,
            Spikky bikky bee!"


                     II.

    Mrs. Spikky Sparrow said,
    "Spikky, darling! in my head
    Many thoughts of trouble come,
    Like to flies upon a plum.
    All last night, among the trees,
    I heard you cough, I heard you sneeze;
    And thought I, 'It's come to that
    Because he does not wear a hat!'
        Chippy wippy sikky tee,
        Bikky wikky tikky mee,
            Spikky chippy wee!


                     III.

    "Not that you are growing old;
    But the nights are growing cold.
    No one stays out all night long
    Without a hat: I'm sure it's wrong!"
    Mr. Spikky said, "How kind,
    Dear, you are, to speak your mind!
    All your life I wish you luck!
    You are, you are, a lovely duck!
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twitchy witchy witchy bee,
            Tikky tikky tee!


                     IV.

    "I was also sad, and thinking,
    When one day I saw you winking,
    And I heard you sniffle-snuffle,
    And I saw your feathers ruffle:
    To myself I sadly said,
    'She's neuralgia in her head!
    That dear head has nothing on it!
    Ought she not to wear a bonnet?'
        Witchy kitchy kitchy wee,
        Spikky wikky mikky bee,
            Chippy wippy chee!


                     V.

    "Let us both fly up to town:
    There I'll buy you such a gown!
    Which, completely in the fashion,
    You shall tie a sky-blue sash on;
    And a pair of slippers neat
    To fit your darling little feet,
    So that you will look and feel
    Quite galloobious and genteel.
        Jikky wikky bikky see,
        Chicky bikky wikky bee,
            Twicky witchy wee!"


                     VI.

    So they both to London went,
    Alighting on the Monument;
    Whence they flew down swiftly--pop!
    Into Moses' wholesale shop:
    There they bought a hat and bonnet,
    And a gown with spots upon it,
    A satin sash of Cloxam blue,
    And a pair of slippers too.
        Zikky wikky mikky bee,
        Witchy witchy mitchy kee,
            Sikky tikky wee!


                     VII.

    Then, when so completely dressed,
    Back they flew, and reached their nest.
    Their children cried, "O ma and pa!
    How truly beautiful you are!"
    Said they, "We trust that cold or pain
    We shall never feel again;
    While, perched on tree or house or steeple,
    We now shall look like other people.
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twikky mikky bikky bee,
            Zikky sikky tee!"

               [Illustration]




THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    The Broom and the Shovel, the Poker and Tongs,
      They all took a drive in the Park;
    And they each sang a song, ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
      Before they went back in the dark.
    Mr. Poker he sate quite upright in the coach;
      Mr. Tongs made a clatter and clash;
    Miss Shovel was dressed all in black (with a brooch);
      Mrs. Broom was in blue (with a sash).
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        And they all sang a song.


                     II.

   "O Shovely so lovely!" the Poker he sang,
     "You have perfectly conquered my heart.
    Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong! If you're pleased with my song,
      I will feed you with cold apple-tart.
    When you scrape up the coals with a delicate sound,
      You enrapture my life with delight,
    Your nose is so shiny, your head is so round,
      And your shape is so slender and bright!
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        Ain't you pleased with my song?"


                     III.

   "Alas! Mrs. Broom," sighed the Tongs in his song,
     "Oh! is it because I'm so thin,
    And my legs are so long,--ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!--
      That you don't care about me a pin?
    Ah! fairest of creatures, when sweeping the room,
      Ah! why don't you heed my complaint?
    Must you needs be so cruel, you beautiful Broom,
      Because you are covered with paint?
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        You are certainly wrong."


                     IV.

    Mrs. Broom and Miss Shovel together they sang,
     "What nonsense you're singing to-day!"
    Said the Shovel, "I'll certainly hit you a bang!"
      Said the Broom, "And I'll sweep you away!"
    So the coachman drove homeward as fast as he could,
      Perceiving their anger with pain;
    But they put on the kettle, and little by little
      They all became happy again.
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        There's an end of my song.




THE TABLE AND THE CHAIR.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    Said the Table to the Chair,
    "You can hardly be aware
    How I suffer from the heat
    And from chilblains on my feet.
    If we took a little walk,
    We might have a little talk;
    Pray let us take the air,"
    Said the Table to the Chair.


                     II.

    Said the Chair unto the Table,
    "Now, you _know_ we are not able:
    How foolishly you talk,
    When you know we _cannot_ walk!"
    Said the Table with a sigh,
    "It can do no harm to try.
    I've as many legs as you:
    Why can't we walk on two?"


                     III.

    So they both went slowly down,
    And walked about the town
    With a cheerful bumpy sound
    As they toddled round and round;
    And everybody cried,
    As they hastened to their side,
    "See! the Table and the Chair
    Have come out to take the air!"


                     IV.

    But in going down an alley,
    To a castle in a valley,
    They completely lost their way,
    And wandered all the day;
    Till, to see them safely back,
    They paid a Ducky-quack,
    And a Beetle, and a Mouse,
    Who took them to their house.

              [Illustration]


                     V.

    Then they whispered to each other,
    "O delightful little brother,
    What a lovely walk we've taken!
    Let us dine on beans and bacon."
    So the Ducky and the leetle
    Browny-Mousy and the Beetle
    Dined, and danced upon their heads
    Till they toddled to their beds.

              [Illustration]

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE STORIES.


THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD.

Once upon a time, a long while ago, there were four little people whose
names were

[Illustration]

VIOLET, SLINGSBY, GUY, and LIONEL;
and they all thought they should like to see the world. So they bought a
large boat to sail quite round the world by sea, and then they were to come
back on the other side by land. The boat was painted blue with green spots,
and the sail was yellow with red stripes: and, when they set off, they only
took a small Cat to steer and look after the boat, besides an elderly
Quangle-Wangle, who had to cook the dinner and make the tea; for which
purposes they took a large kettle.

[Illustration]

For the first ten days they sailed on beautifully, and found plenty to eat,
as there were lots of fish; and they had only to take them out of the sea
with a long spoon, when the Quangle-Wangle instantly cooked them; and the
Pussy-Cat was fed with the bones, with which she expressed herself pleased,
on the whole: so that all the party were very happy.

During the daytime, Violet chiefly occupied herself in putting salt water
into a churn; while her three brothers churned it violently, in the hope
that it would turn into butter, which it seldom if ever did; and in the
evening they all retired into the tea-kettle, where they all managed to
sleep very comfortably, while Pussy and the Quangle-Wangle managed the
boat.

[Illustration]

After a time, they saw some land at a distance; and, when they came to it,
they found it was an island made of water quite surrounded by earth.
Besides that, it was bordered by evanescent isthmuses, with a great
gulf-stream running about all over it; so that it was perfectly beautiful,
and contained only a single tree, 503 feet high.

When they had landed, they walked about, but found, to their great
surprise, that the island was quite full of veal-cutlets and
chocolate-drops, and nothing else. So they all climbed up the single high
tree to discover, if possible, if there were any people; but having
remained on the top of the tree for a week, and not seeing anybody, they
naturally concluded that there were no inhabitants; and accordingly, when
they came down, they loaded the boat with two thousand veal-cutlets and a
million of chocolate-drops; and these afforded them sustenance for more
than a month, during which time they pursued their voyage with the utmost
delight and apathy.

[Illustration]

After this they came to a shore where there were no less than sixty-five
great red parrots with blue tails, sitting on a rail all of a row, and all
fast asleep. And I am sorry to say that the Pussy-Cat and the
Quangle-Wangle crept softly, and bit off the tail-feathers of all the
sixty-five parrots; for which Violet reproved them both severely.

[Illustration]

Notwithstanding which, she proceeded to insert all the feathers--two
hundred and sixty in number--in her bonnet; thereby causing it to have a
lovely and glittering appearance, highly prepossessing and efficacious.

[Illustration]

The next thing that happened to them was in a narrow part of the sea, which
was so entirely full of fishes that the boat could go on no farther: so
they remained there about six weeks, till they had eaten nearly all the
fishes, which were soles, and all ready-cooked, and covered with
shrimp-sauce, so that there was no trouble whatever. And as the few fishes
who remained uneaten complained of the cold, as well as of the difficulty
they had in getting any sleep on account of the extreme noise made by the
arctic bears and the tropical turnspits, which frequented the neighborhood
in great numbers, Violet most amiably knitted a small woollen frock for
several of the fishes, and Slingsby administered some opium-drops to them;
through which kindness they became quite warm, and slept soundly.

[Illustration]

Then they came to a country which was wholly covered with immense
orange-trees of a vast size, and quite full of fruit. So they all landed,
taking with them the tea-kettle, intending to gather some of the oranges,
and place them in it. But, while they were busy about this, a most
dreadfully high wind rose, and blew out most of the parrot-tail feathers
from Violet's bonnet. That, however, was nothing compared with the calamity
of the oranges falling down on their heads by millions and millions, which
thumped and bumped and bumped and thumped them all so seriously, that they
were obliged to run as hard as they could for their lives; besides that the
sound of the oranges rattling on the tea-kettle was of the most fearful and
amazing nature.

[Illustration]

Nevertheless, they got safely to the boat, although considerably vexed and
hurt; and the Quangle-Wangle's right foot was so knocked about, that he had
to sit with his head in his slipper for at least a week.

[Illustration]

This event made them all for a time rather melancholy: and perhaps they
might never have become less so, had not Lionel, with a most praiseworthy
devotion and perseverance, continued to stand on one leg, and whistle to
them in a loud and lively manner; which diverted the whole party so
extremely that they gradually recovered their spirits, and agreed that
whenever they should reach home, they would subscribe towards a testimonial
to Lionel, entirely made of gingerbread and raspberries, as an earnest
token of their sincere and grateful infection.

[Illustration]

After sailing on calmly for several more days, they came to another
country, where they were much pleased and surprised to see a countless
multitude of white Mice with red eyes, all sitting in a great circle,
slowly eating custard-pudding with the most satisfactory and polite
demeanor.

[Illustration]

And as the four travellers were rather hungry, being tired of eating
nothing but soles and oranges for so long a period, they held a council as
to the propriety of asking the Mice for some of their pudding in a humble
and affecting manner, by which they could hardly be otherwise than
gratified. It was agreed, therefore, that Guy should go and ask the Mice,
which he immediately did; and the result was, that they gave a walnut-shell
only half full of custard diluted with water. Now, this displeased Guy, who
said, "Out of such a lot of pudding as you have got, I must say, you might
have spared a somewhat larger quantity." But no sooner had he finished
speaking than the Mice turned round at once, and sneezed at him in an
appalling and vindictive manner (and it is impossible to imagine a more
scroobious and unpleasant sound than that caused by the simultaneous
sneezing of many millions of angry Mice); so that Guy rushed back to the
boat, having first shied his cap into the middle of the custard-pudding, by
which means he completely spoiled the Mice's dinner.

[Illustration]

By and by the four children came to a country where there were no houses,
but only an incredibly innumerable number of large bottles without corks,
and of a dazzling and sweetly susceptible blue color. Each of these blue
bottles contained a Blue-Bottle-Fly; and all these interesting animals live
continually together in the most copious and rural harmony: nor perhaps in
many parts of the world is such perfect and abject happiness to be found.
Violet and Slingsby and Guy and Lionel were greatly struck with this
singular and instructive settlement; and, having previously asked
permission of the Blue-Bottle-Flies (which was most courteously granted),
the boat was drawn up to the shore, and they proceeded to make tea in front
of the bottles: but as they had no tea-leaves, they merely placed some
pebbles in the hot water; and the Quangle-Wangle played some tunes over it
on an accordion, by which, of course, tea was made directly, and of the
very best quality.

The four children then entered into conversation with the
Blue-Bottle-Flies, who discoursed in a placid and genteel manner, though
with a slightly buzzing accent, chiefly owing to the fact that they each
held a small clothes-brush between their teeth, which naturally occasioned
a fizzy, extraneous utterance.

"Why," said Violet, "would you kindly inform us, do you reside in bottles;
and, if in bottles at all, why not, rather, in green or purple, or, indeed,
in yellow bottles?"

To which questions a very aged Blue-Bottle-Fly answered, "We found the
bottles here all ready to live in; that is to say, our great-great-great-
great-great-grandfathers did: so we occupied them at once. And, when the
winter comes on, we turn the bottles upside down, and consequently rarely
feel the cold at all; and you know very well that this could not be the
case with bottles of any other color than blue."

"Of course it could not," said Slingsby. "But, if we may take the liberty
of inquiring, on what do you chiefly subsist?"

"Mainly on oyster-patties," said the Blue-Bottle-Fly; "and, when these are
scarce, on raspberry vinegar and Russian leather boiled down to a jelly."

"How delicious!" said Guy.

To which Lionel added, "Huzz!" And all the Blue-Bottle-Flies said, "Buzz!"

At this time, an elderly Fly said it was the hour for the evening-song to
be sung; and, on a signal being given, all the Blue-Bottle-Flies began to
buzz at once in a sumptuous and sonorous manner, the melodious and
mucilaginous sounds echoing all over the waters, and resounding across the
tumultuous tops of the transitory titmice upon the intervening and verdant
mountains with a serene and sickly suavity only known to the truly
virtuous. The Moon was shining slobaciously from the star-bespangled sky,
while her light irrigated the smooth and shiny sides and wings and backs of
the Blue-Bottle-Flies with a peculiar and trivial splendor, while all
Nature cheerfully responded to the cerulean and conspicuous circumstances.

In many long-after years, the four little travellers looked back to that
evening as one of the happiest in all their lives; and it was already past
midnight when--the sail of the boat having been set up by the
Quangle-Wangle, the tea-kettle and churn placed in their respective
positions, and the Pussy-Cat stationed at the helm--the children each took
a last and affectionate farewell of the Blue-Bottle-Flies, who walked down
in a body to the water's edge to see the travellers embark.

[Illustration]

As a token of parting respect and esteem, Violet made a courtesy quite down
to the ground, and stuck one of her few remaining parrot-tail feathers into
the back hair of the most pleasing of the Blue-Bottle-Flies; while
Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel offered them three small boxes, containing,
respectively, black pins, dried figs, and Epsom salts; and thus they left
that happy shore forever.

Overcome by their feelings, the four little travellers instantly jumped
into the tea-kettle, and fell fast asleep. But all along the shore, for
many hours, there was distinctly heard a sound of severely-suppressed sobs,
and of a vague multitude of living creatures using their
pocket-handkerchiefs in a subdued simultaneous snuffle, lingering sadly
along the walloping waves as the boat sailed farther and farther away from
the Land of the Happy Blue-Bottle-Flies.

Nothing particular occurred for some days after these events, except that,
as the travellers were passing a low tract of sand, they perceived an
unusual and gratifying spectacle; namely, a large number of Crabs and
Crawfish--perhaps six or seven hundred--sitting by the water-side, and
endeavoring to disentangle a vast heap of pale pink worsted, which they
moistened at intervals with a fluid composed of lavender-water and
white-wine negus.

"Can we be of any service to you, O crusty Crabbies?" said the four
children.

"Thank you kindly," said the Crabs consecutively. "We are trying to make
some worsted mittens, but do not know how."

On which Violet, who was perfectly acquainted with the art of
mitten-making, said to the Crabs, "Do your claws unscrew, or are they
fixtures?"

"They are all made to unscrew," said the Crabs; and forthwith they
deposited a great pile of claws close to the boat, with which Violet
uncombed all the pale pink worsted, and then made the loveliest mittens
with it you can imagine. These the Crabs, having resumed and screwed on
their claws, placed cheerfully upon their wrists, and walked away rapidly
on their hind-legs, warbling songs with a silvery voice and in a minor key.

After this, the four little people sailed on again till they came to a vast
and wide plain of astonishing dimensions, on which nothing whatever could
be discovered at first; but, as the travellers walked onward, there
appeared in the extreme and dim distance a single object, which on a nearer
approach, and on an accurately cutaneous inspection, seemed to be somebody
in a large white wig, sitting on an arm-chair made of sponge-cakes and
oyster-shells. "It does not quite look like a human being," said Violet
doubtfully; nor could they make out what it really was, till the
Quangle-Wangle (who had previously been round the world) exclaimed softly
in a loud voice, "It is the co-operative Cauliflower!"

[Illustration]

And so, in truth, it was: and they soon found that what they had taken for
an immense wig was in reality the top of the Cauliflower; and that he had
no feet at all, being able to walk tolerably well with a fluctuating and
graceful movement on a single cabbage-stalk,--an accomplishment which
naturally saved him the expense of stockings and shoes.

Presently, while the whole party from the boat was gazing at him with
mingled affection and disgust, he suddenly arose, and, in a somewhat
plumdomphious manner, hurried off towards the setting sun,--his steps
supported by two superincumbent confidential Cucumbers, and a large number
of Waterwagtails proceeding in advance of him by three and three in a
row,--till he finally disappeared on the brink of the western sky in a
crystal cloud of sudorific sand.

[Illustration]

So remarkable a sight, of course, impressed the four children very deeply;
and they returned immediately to their boat with a strong sense of
undeveloped asthma and a great appetite.

Shortly after this, the travellers were obliged to sail directly below some
high overhanging rocks, from the top of one of which a particularly odious
little boy, dressed in rose-colored knickerbockers, and with a pewter plate
upon his head, threw an enormous pumpkin at the boat, by which it was
instantly upset.

[Illustration]

But this upsetting was of no consequence, because all the party knew how to
swim very well: and, in fact, they preferred swimming about till after the
moon rose; when, the water growing chilly, they sponge-taneously entered
the boat. Meanwhile the Quangle-Wangle threw back the pumpkin with immense
force, so that it hit the rocks where the malicious little boy in
rose-colored knickerbockers was sitting; when, being quite full of
lucifer-matches, the pumpkin exploded surreptitiously into a thousand bits;
whereon the rocks instantly took fire, and the odious little boy became
unpleasantly hotter and hotter and hotter, till his knickerbockers were
turned quite green, and his nose was burnt off.

Two or three days after this had happened, they came to another place,
where they found nothing at all except some wide and deep pits full of
mulberry-jam. This is the property of the tiny, yellow-nosed Apes who
abound in these districts, and who store up the mulberry-jam for their food
in winter, when they mix it with pellucid pale periwinkle-soup, and serve
it out in wedgewood china-bowls, which grow freely all over that part of
the country. Only one of the yellow-nosed Apes was on the spot, and he was
fast asleep; yet the four travellers and the Quangle-Wangle and Pussy were
so terrified by the violence and sanguinary sound of his snoring, that they
merely took a small cupful of the jam, and returned to re-embark in their
boat without delay.

What was their horror on seeing the boat (including the churn and the
tea-kettle) in the mouth of an enormous Seeze Pyder, an aquatic and
ferocious creature truly dreadful to behold, and, happily, only met with in
those excessive longitudes! In a moment, the beautiful boat was bitten into
fifty-five thousand million hundred billion bits; and it instantly became
quite clear that Violet, Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel could no longer
preliminate their voyage by sea.

The four travellers were therefore obliged to resolve on pursuing their
wanderings by land: and, very fortunately, there happened to pass by at
that moment an elderly Rhinoceros, on which they seized; and, all four
mounting on his back,--the Quangle-Wangle sitting on his horn, and holding
on by his ears, and the Pussy-Cat swinging at the end of his tail,--they
set off, having only four small beans and three pounds of mashed potatoes
to last through their whole journey.

[Illustration]

They were, however, able to catch numbers of the chickens and turkeys and
other birds who incessantly alighted on the head of the Rhinoceros for the
purpose of gathering the seeds of the rhododendron-plants which grew
there; and these creatures they cooked in the most translucent and
satisfactory manner by means of a fire lighted on the end of the
Rhinoceros's back. A crowd of Kangaroos and gigantic Cranes accompanied
them, from feelings of curiosity and complacency; so that they were never
at a loss for company, and went onward, as it were, in a sort of profuse
and triumphant procession.

Thus in less than eighteen weeks they all arrived safely at home, where
they were received by their admiring relatives with joy tempered with
contempt, and where they finally resolved to carry out the rest of their
travelling-plans at some more favorable opportunity.

As for the Rhinoceros, in token of their grateful adherence, they had him
killed and stuffed directly, and then set him up outside the door of their
father's house as a diaphanous doorscraper.

[Illustration]




THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF
THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE.


CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

In former days,--that is to say, once upon a time,--there lived in the Land
of Gramble-Blamble seven families. They lived by the side of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple (one of the seven families, indeed, lived _in_ the lake), and
on the outskirts of the city of Tosh, which, excepting when it was quite
dark, they could see plainly. The names of all these places you have
probably heard of; and you have only not to look in your geography-books to
find out all about them.

Now, the seven families who lived on the borders of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple were as follows in the next chapter.


CHAPTER II.

THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

There was a family of two old Parrots and seven young Parrots.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Storks and seven young Storks.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Geese and seven young Geese.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Owls and seven young Owls.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Guinea Pigs and seven young Guinea Pigs.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Cats and seven young Cats.

[Illustration]

And there was a family of two old Fishes and seven young Fishes.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER III.

THE HABITS OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

The Parrots lived upon the Soffsky-Poffsky trees, which were beautiful to
behold, and covered with blue leaves; and they fed upon fruit, artichokes,
and striped beetles.

The Storks walked in and out of the Lake Pipple-Popple, and ate frogs for
breakfast, and buttered toast for tea; but on account of the extreme length
of their legs they could not sit down, and so they walked about
continually.

The Geese, having webs to their feet, caught quantities of flies, which
they ate for dinner.

The Owls anxiously looked after mice, which they caught, and made into
sago-puddings.

The Guinea Pigs toddled about the gardens, and ate lettuces and Cheshire
cheese.

The Cats sate still in the sunshine, and fed upon sponge biscuits.

The Fishes lived in the lake, and fed chiefly on boiled periwinkles.

And all these seven families lived together in the utmost fun and felicity.


CHAPTER IV.

THE CHILDREN OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES ARE SENT AWAY.

One day all the seven fathers and the seven mothers of the seven families
agreed that they would send their children out to see the world.

So they called them all together, and gave them each eight shillings and
some good advice, some chocolate-drops, and a small green morocco
pocket-book to set down their expenses in.

They then particularly entreated them not to quarrel; and all the parents
sent off their children with a parting injunction.

"If," said the old Parrots, "you find a cherry, do not fight about who
should have it."

"And," said the old Storks, "if you find a frog, divide it carefully into
seven bits, but on no account quarrel about it."

And the old Geese said to the seven young Geese, "Whatever you do, be sure
you do not touch a plum-pudding flea."

And the old Owls said, "If you find a mouse, tear him up into seven slices,
and eat him cheerfully, but without quarrelling."

And the old Guinea Pigs said, "Have a care that you eat your lettuces,
should you find any, not greedily, but calmly."

And the old Cats said, "Be particularly careful not to meddle with a
clangle-wangle if you should see one."

And the old Fishes said, "Above all things, avoid eating a blue boss-woss;
for they do not agree with fishes, and give them a pain in their toes."

So all the children of each family thanked their parents; and, making in
all forty-nine polite bows, they went into the wide world.



CHAPTER V.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG PARROTS.

The seven young Parrots had not gone far, when they saw a tree with a
single cherry on it, which the oldest Parrot picked instantly; but the
other six, being extremely hungry, tried to get it also. On which all the
seven began to fight; and they
scuffled,
     and huffled,
       and ruffled,
         and shuffled,
           and puffled,
             and muffled,
               and buffled,
                 and duffled,
                   and fluffled,
                     and guffled,
                       and bruffled,
                         and screamed, and shrieked, and squealed,
and squeaked, and clawed, and snapped, and bit, and bumped, and thumped,
and dumped, and flumped each other, till they were all torn into little
bits; and at last there was nothing left to record this painful incident
except the cherry and seven small green feathers.

And that was the vicious and voluble end of the seven young Parrots.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER VI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG STORKS.

When the seven young Storks set out, they walked or flew for fourteen weeks
in a straight line, and for six weeks more in a crooked one; and after that
they ran as hard as they could for one hundred and eight miles; and after
that they stood still, and made a himmeltanious chatter-clatter-blattery
noise with their bills.

About the same time they perceived a large frog, spotted with green, and
with a sky-blue stripe under each ear.

So, being hungry, they immediately flew at him, and were going to divide
him into seven pieces, when they began to quarrel as to which of his legs
should be taken off first. One said this, and another said that; and while
they were all quarrelling, the frog hopped away. And when they saw that he
was gone, they began to
  chatter-clatter,
      blatter-platter,
          patter-blatter,
              matter-clatter,
                  flatter-quatter,
more violently than ever; and after they
had fought for a week, they pecked each other all to little pieces, so that
at last nothing was left of any of them except their bills.

And that was the end of the seven young Storks.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER VII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GEESE.

When the seven young Geese began to travel, they went over a large plain,
on which there was but one tree, and that was, a very bad one.

So four of them went up to the top of it, and looked about them; while the
other three waddled up and down, and repeated poetry, and their last six
lessons in arithmetic, geography, and cookery.

Presently they perceived, a long way off, an object of the most interesting
and obese appearance, having a perfectly round body exactly resembling a
boiled plum-pudding, with two little wings, and a beak, and three feathers
growing out of his head, and only one leg.

So, after a time, all the seven young Geese said to each other, "Beyond all
doubt this beast must be a Plum-pudding Flea!"

On which they incautiously began to sing aloud,

       "Plum-pudding Flea,
        Plum-pudding Flea,
        Wherever you be,
        Oh! come to our tree,
    And listen, oh! listen, oh! listen to me!"

And no sooner had they sung this verse than the Plum-pudding Flea began to
hop and skip on his one leg with the most dreadful velocity, and came
straight to the tree, where he stopped, and looked about him in a vacant
and voluminous manner.

On which the seven young Geese were greatly alarmed, and all of a
tremble-bemble: so one of them put out his long neck, and just touched him
with the tip of his bill; but no sooner had he done this than the
Plum-pudding Flea skipped and hopped about more and more, and higher and
higher; after which he opened his mouth, and, to the great surprise and
indignation of the seven Geese, began to bark so loudly and furiously and
terribly, that they were totally unable to bear the noise; and by degrees
every one of them suddenly tumbled down quite dead.

So that was the end of the seven young Geese.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER VIII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG OWLS.

When the seven young Owls set out, they sate every now and then on the
branches of old trees, and never went far at one time.

And one night, when it was quite dark, they thought they heard a mouse;
but, as the gas-lamps were not lighted, they could not see him.

So they called out, "Is that a mouse?"

On which a mouse answered, "Squeaky-peeky-weeky! yes, it is!"

And immediately all the young Owls threw themselves off the tree, meaning
to alight on the ground; but they did not perceive that there was a large
well below them, into which they all fell superficially, and were every one
of them drowned in less than half a minute.

So that was the end of the seven young Owls.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER IX.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GUINEA PIGS.

The seven young Guinea Pigs went into a garden full of goose-berry-bushes
and tiggory-trees, under one of which they fell asleep. When they awoke,
they saw a large lettuce, which had grown out of the ground while they had
been sleeping, and which had an immense number of green leaves. At which
they all exclaimed,--

   "Lettuce! O lettuce
    Let us, O let us,
    O lettuce-leaves,
    O let us leave this tree, and eat
    Lettuce, O let us, lettuce-leaves!"

And instantly the seven young Guinea Pigs rushed with such extreme force
against the lettuce-plant, and hit their heads so vividly against its
stalk, that the concussion brought on directly an incipient transitional
inflammation of their noses, which grew worse and worse and worse and
worse, till it incidentally killed them all seven.

And that was the end of the seven young Guinea Pigs.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER X.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG CATS.

The seven young Cats set off on their travels with great delight and
rapacity. But, on coming to the top of a high hill, they perceived at a
long distance off a Clangle-Wangle (or, as it is more properly written,
Clangel-Wangel); and, in spite of the warning they had had, they ran
straight up to it.

(Now, the Clangle-Wangle is a most dangerous and delusive beast, and by no
means commonly to be met with. They live in the water as well as on land,
using their long tail as a sail when in the former element. Their speed is
extreme; but their habits of life are domestic and superfluous, and their
general demeanor pensive and pellucid. On summer evenings, they may
sometimes be observed near the Lake Pipple-Popple, standing on their heads,
and humming their national melodies. They subsist entirely on vegetables,
excepting when they eat veal or mutton or pork or beef or fish or
saltpetre.)

The moment the Clangle-Wangle saw the seven young Cats approach, he ran
away; and as he ran straight on for four months, and the Cats, though they
continued to run, could never overtake him, they all gradually _died_ of
fatigue and exhaustion, and never afterwards recovered.

And this was the end of the seven young Cats.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG FISHES.

The seven young Fishes swam across the Lake Pipple-Popple, and into the
river, and into the ocean; where, most unhappily for them, they saw, on the
fifteenth day of their travels, a bright-blue Boss-Woss, and instantly swam
after him. But the Blue Boss-Woss plunged into a
    perpendicular,
        spicular,
            orbicular,
                quadrangular,
                     circular depth of soft mud;
where, in fact, his house was.

And the seven young Fishes, swimming with great and uncomfortable velocity,
plunged also into the mud quite against their will, and, not being
accustomed to it, were all suffocated in a very short period.

And that was the end of the seven young Fishes.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XII.

OF WHAT OCCURRED SUBSEQUENTLY.

After it was known that the

            seven young Parrots,
    and the seven young Storks,
    and the seven young Geese,
    and the seven young Owls,
    and the seven young Guinea Pigs,
    and the seven young Cats,
    and the seven young Fishes,

were all dead, then the Frog, and the Plum-pudding Flea, and the Mouse, and
the Clangle-Wangle, and the Blue Boss-Woss, all met together to rejoice
over their good fortune. And they collected the seven feathers of the seven
young Parrots, and the seven bills of the seven young Storks, and the
lettuce, and the cherry; and having placed the latter on the lettuce, and
the other objects in a circular arrangement at their base, they danced a
hornpipe round all these memorials until they were quite tired; after which
they gave a tea-party, and a garden-party, and a ball, and a concert, and
then returned to their respective homes full of joy and respect, sympathy,
satisfaction, and disgust.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XIII.

OF WHAT BECAME OF THE PARENTS OF THE FORTY-NINE CHILDREN.

BUT when the two old Parrots,
     and the two old Storks,
     and the two old Geese,
     and the two old Owls,
     and the two old Guinea Pigs,
     and the two old Cats,
     and the two old Fishes,

became aware, by reading in the newspapers, of the calamitous extinction of
the whole of their families, they refused all further sustenance; and,
sending out to various shops, they purchased great quantities of Cayenne
pepper and brandy and vinegar and blue sealing-wax, besides seven immense
glass bottles with air-tight stoppers. And, having done this, they ate a
light supper of brown-bread and Jerusalem artichokes, and took an
affecting and formal leave of the whole of their acquaintance, which was
very numerous and distinguished and select and responsible and ridiculous.


CHAPTER XIV.

CONCLUSION.

And after this they filled the bottles with the ingredients for pickling,
and each couple jumped into a separate bottle; by which effort, of course,
they all died immediately, and became thoroughly pickled in a few minutes;
having previously made their wills (by the assistance of the most eminent
lawyers of the district), in which they left strict orders that the
stoppers of the seven bottles should be carefully sealed up with the blue
sealing-wax they had purchased; and that they themselves, in the bottles,
should be presented to the principal museum of the city of Tosh, to be
labelled with parchment or any other anti-congenial succedaneum, and to be
placed on a marble table with silver-gilt legs, for the daily inspection
and contemplation, and for the perpetual benefit, of the pusillanimous
public.

And if you ever happen to go to Gramble-Blamble, and visit that museum in
the city of Tosh, look for them on the ninety-eighth table in the four
hundred and twenty-seventh room of the right-hand corridor of the left wing
of the central quadrangle of that magnificent building; for, if you do not,
you certainly will not see them.

[Illustration]

       *        *        *        *        *




                 NONSENSE COOKERY.

Extract from "The Nonsense Gazette," for August, 1870.

"Our readers will be interested in the following communications from our
valued and learned contributor, Prof. Bosh, whose labors in the fields of
culinary and botanical science are so well known to all the world. The
first three articles richly merit to be added to the domestic cookery of
every family: those which follow claim the attention of all botanists; and
we are happy to be able, through Dr. Bosh's kindness, to present our
readers with illustrations of his discoveries. All the new flowers are
found in the Valley of Verrikwier, near the Lake of Oddgrow, and on the
summit of the Hill Orfeltugg."



THREE RECEIPTS FOR DOMESTIC COOKERY.


TO MAKE AN AMBLONGUS PIE.

Take 4 pounds (say 4-1/2 pounds) of fresh Amblongusses, and put them in a
small pipkin.

Cover them with water, and boil them for 8 hours incessantly; after which
add 2 pints of new milk, and proceed to boil for 4 hours more.

When you have ascertained that the Amblongusses are quite soft, take them
out, and place them in a wide pan, taking care to shake them well
previously.

Grate some nutmeg over the surface, and cover them carefully with powdered
gingerbread, curry-powder, and a sufficient quantity of Cayenne pepper.

Remove the pan into the next room, and place it on the floor. Bring it back
again, and let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Shake the pan
violently till all the Amblongusses have become of a pale purple color.

Then, having prepared the paste, insert the whole carefully; adding at the
same time a small pigeon, 2 slices of beef, 4 cauliflowers, and any number
of oysters.

Watch patiently till the crust begins to rise, and add a pinch of salt from
time to time.

Serve up in a clean dish, and throw the whole out of window as fast as
possible.


TO MAKE CRUMBOBBLIOUS CUTLETS.

Procure some strips of beef, and, having cut them into the smallest
possible slices, proceed to cut them still smaller,--eight, or perhaps
nine times.

When the whole is thus minced, brush it up hastily with a new
clothes-brush, and stir round rapidly and capriciously with a salt-spoon
or a soup-ladle.

Place the whole in a saucepan, and remove it to a sunny place,--say the
roof of the house, if free from sparrows or other birds,--and leave it
there for about a week.

At the end of that time add a little lavender, some oil of almonds, and a
few herring-bones; and then cover the whole with 4 gallons of clarified
Crumbobblious sauce, when it will be ready for use.

Cut it into the shape of ordinary cutlets, and serve up in a clean
table-cloth or dinner-napkin.


TO MAKE GOSKY PATTIES.

Take a pig three or four years of age, and tie him by the off hind-leg to a
post. Place 5 pounds of currants, 3 of sugar, 2 pecks of peas, 18 roast
chestnuts, a candle, and 6 bushels of turnips, within his reach: if he eats
these, constantly provide him with more.

Then procure some cream, some slices of Cheshire cheese, 4 quires of
foolscap paper, and a packet of black pins. Work the whole into a paste,
and spread it out to dry on a sheet of clean brown waterproof linen.

When the paste is perfectly dry, but not before, proceed to beat the pig
violently with the handle of a large broom. If he squeals, beat him again.

Visit the paste and beat the pig alternately for some days, and ascertain
if, at the end of that period, the whole is about to turn into Gosky
Patties.

If it does not then, it never will; and in that case the pig may be let
loose, and the whole process may be considered as finished.

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE BOTANY.


[Illustration: Baccopipia Gracilis.]

[Illustration: Bottlephorkia Spoonifolia.]

[Illustration: Cockatooca Superba.]

[Illustration: Fishia Marina.]

[Illustration: Guittara Pensilis.]

[Illustration: Manypeeplia Upsidownia.]

[Illustration: Phattfacia Stupenda.]

[Illustration: Piggiwiggia Pyramidalis.]

[Illustration: Plumbunnia Nutritiosa.]

[Illustration: Pollybirdia Singularis.]

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE ALPHABETS.


            A

     [Illustration]

    A was an ant
    Who seldom stood still,
    And who made a nice house
    In the side of a hill.

            a!
     Nice little ant!


            B

     [Illustration]

    B was a book
    With a binding of blue,
    And pictures and stories
    For me and for you.

            b!
     Nice little book!


            C

     [Illustration]

    C was a cat
    Who ran after a rat;
    But his courage did fail
    When she seized on his tail.

            c!
      Crafty old cat!


            D

     [Illustration]

    D was a duck
    With spots on his back,
    Who lived in the water,
    And always said "Quack!"

            d!
      Dear little duck!


            E

     [Illustration]

    E was an elephant,
    Stately and wise:
    He had tusks and a trunk,
    And two queer little eyes.

            e!
    Oh, what funny small eyes!


            F

     [Illustration]


    F was a fish
    Who was caught in a net;
    But he got out again,
    And is quite alive yet.

            f!
      Lively young fish!


            G

     [Illustration]

    G was a goat
    Who was spotted with brown:
    When he did not lie still
    He walked up and down.

            g!
      Good little goat!


            H

     [Illustration]

    H was a hat
    Which was all on one side;
    Its crown was too high,
    And its brim was too wide.

            h!
      Oh, what a hat!


            I

     [Illustration]

    I was some ice
    So white and so nice,
    But which nobody tasted;
    And so it was wasted.

            i!
    All that good ice!


            J

     [Illustration]


    J was a jackdaw
    Who hopped up and down
    In the principal street
    Of a neighboring town.

            j!
     All through the town!


            K

     [Illustration]

    K was a kite
    Which flew out of sight,
    Above houses so high,
    Quite into the sky.

            k
       Fly away, kite!


            L

     [Illustration]

    L was a light
    Which burned all the night,
    And lighted the gloom
    Of a very dark room.

            l!
     Useful nice light!


            M

     [Illustration]

    M was a mill
    Which stood on a hill,
    And turned round and round
    With a loud hummy sound.

            m!
      Useful old mill!


            N

     [Illustration]

    N was a net
    Which was thrown in the sea
    To catch fish for dinner
    For you and for me.

            n!
      Nice little net!


            O

     [Illustration]

    O was an orange
    So yellow and round:
    When it fell off the tree,
    It fell down to the ground.

            o!
    Down to the ground!


            P

     [Illustration]

    P was a pig,
    Who was not very big;
    But his tail was too curly,
    And that made him surly.

            p!
    Cross little pig!


            Q

     [Illustration]

    Q was a quail
    With a very short tail;
    And he fed upon corn
    In the evening and morn.

            q!
    Quaint little quail!


            R

     [Illustration]

    R was a rabbit,
    Who had a bad habit
    Of eating the flowers
    In gardens and bowers.

            r!
     Naughty fat rabbit!


            S

     [Illustration]

    S was the sugar-tongs,
    Nippity-nee,
    To take up the sugar
    To put in our tea.

            s!
       Nippity-nee!


            T

     [Illustration]

    T was a tortoise,
    All yellow and black:
    He walked slowly away,
    And he never came back.

            t!
    Torty never came back!


            U

     [Illustration]

    U was an urn
    All polished and bright,
    And full of hot water
    At noon and at night.

            u!
     Useful old urn!


            V

     [Illustration]

    V was a villa
    Which stood on a hill,
    By the side of a river,
    And close to a mill.

            v!
    Nice little villa!


            W

     [Illustration]

    W was a whale
    With a very long tail,
    Whose movements were frantic
    Across the Atlantic.

            w!
   Monstrous old whale!


            X

     [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who, more than all Turks, is
    Renowned for his fashion
    Of fury and passion.

            x!
    Angry old Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

    Y was a yew,
    Which flourished and grew
    By a quiet abode
    Near the side of a road.

            y!
     Dark little yew!


            Z

     [Illustration]

    Z was some zinc,
    So shiny and bright,
    Which caused you to wink
    In the sun's merry light.

            z!
       Beautiful zinc!




            A

     [Illustration]

            a

    A was once an apple-pie,
        Pidy,
        Widy,
        Tidy,
        Pidy,
      Nice insidy,
      Apple-pie!


            B

     [Illustration]

            b

    B was once a little bear,
        Beary,
        Wary,
        Hairy,
        Beary,
      Taky cary,
      Little bear!


            C

     [Illustration]

            c

    C was once a little cake,
        Caky,
        Baky,
        Maky,
        Caky,
      Taky caky,
      Little cake!


            D

     [Illustration]

            d

    D was once a little doll,
        Dolly,
        Molly,
        Polly,
        Nolly,
      Nursy dolly,
      Little doll!


            E

     [Illustration]

            e

    E was once a little eel,
        Eely,
        Weely,
        Peely,
        Eely,
      Twirly, tweely,
        Little eel!



            F

     [Illustration]

            f

    F was once a little fish,
        Fishy,
        Wishy,
        Squishy,
        Fishy,
      In a dishy,
      Little fish!


            G

     [Illustration]

            g

    G was once a little goose,
        Goosy,
        Moosy,
        Boosey,
        Goosey,
      Waddly-woosy,
      Little goose!


            H

     [Illustration]

            h

    H was once a little hen,
        Henny,
        Chenny,
        Tenny,
        Henny.
      Eggsy-any,
      Little hen?


            I

     [Illustration]

            i

    I was once a bottle of ink
        Inky,
        Dinky,
        Thinky,
        Inky,
      Blacky minky,
      Bottle of ink!


            J

     [Illustration]

            j

    J was once a jar of jam,
        Jammy,
        Mammy,
        Clammy,
        Jammy,
      Sweety, swammy,
        Jar of jam!


            K

     [Illustration]

            k

    K was once a little kite,
        Kity,
        Whity,
        Flighty,
        Kity,
      Out of sighty,
        Little kite!


            L

     [Illustration]

            l

    L was once a little lark,
        Larky,
        Marky,
        Harky,
        Larky,
      In the parky,
      Little lark!


            M

     [Illustration]

            m

    M was once a little mouse,
        Mousy,
        Bousy,
        Sousy,
        Mousy,
      In the housy,
      Little mouse!


            N

     [Illustration]

            n

    N was once a little needle,
        Needly,
        Tweedly,
        Threedly,
        Needly,
      Wisky, wheedly,
      Little needle!


            O

     [Illustration]

            o

    O was once a little owl,
        Owly,
        Prowly,
        Howly,
        Owly,
      Browny fowly,
      Little owl!


            P

     [Illustration]

            p

    P was once a little pump,
        Pumpy,
        Slumpy,
        Flumpy,
        Pumpy,
      Dumpy, thumpy,
        Little pump!


            Q

     [Illustration]

            q

    Q was once a little quail,
        Quaily,
        Faily,
        Daily,
        Quaily,
      Stumpy-taily,
      Little quail!


            R

     [Illustration]

            r

    R was once a little rose,
        Rosy,
        Posy,
        Nosy,
        Rosy,
     Blows-y, grows-y,
       Little rose!


            S

     [Illustration]

            s

    S was once a little shrimp,
        Shrimpy,
        Nimpy,
        Flimpy,
        Shrimpy.
     Jumpy, jimpy,
      Little shrimp!


            T

     [Illustration]

            t

    T was once a little thrush,
        Thrushy,
        Hushy,
        Bushy,
        Thrushy,
      Flitty, flushy,
      Little thrush!


            U

     [Illustration]

            u

    U was once a little urn,
           Urny,
           Burny,
           Turny,
           Urny,
      Bubbly, burny,
        Little urn!


            V

     [Illustration]

            v

    V was once a little vine,
        Viny,
        Winy,
        Twiny,
        Viny,
      Twisty-twiny,
      Little vine!


            W

     [Illustration]

            w

    W was once a whale,
        Whaly,
        Scaly,
        Shaly,
        Whaly,
      Tumbly-taily,
      Mighty whale!


            X

     [Illustration]

            x

    X was once a great king Xerxes,
          Xerxy,
          Perxy,
          Turxy,
          Xerxy,
        Linxy, lurxy,
      Great King Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

            y

    Y was once a little yew,
        Yewdy,
        Fewdy,
        Crudy,
        Yewdy,
    Growdy, grewdy,
      Little yew!


            Z

     [Illustration]

            z

    Z was once a piece of zinc,
        Tinky,
        Winky,
        Blinky,
        Tinky,
      Tinkly minky,
      Piece of zinc!




            A

     [Illustration]

    A was an ape,
    Who stole some white tape,
    And tied up his toes
    In four beautiful bows.

            a!

    Funny old ape!


            B

     [Illustration]

    B was a bat,
    Who slept all the day,
    And fluttered about
    When the sun went away.

            b!

    Brown little bat!


            C

     [Illustration]

    C was a camel:
    You rode on his hump;
    And if you fell off,
    You came down such a bump!


            c!

    What a high camel!


            D

     [Illustration]

    D was a dove,
    Who lived in a wood,
    With such pretty soft wings,
    And so gentle and good!

            d!

    Dear little dove!


            E

     [Illustration]

    E was an eagle,
    Who sat on the rocks,
    And looked down on the fields
    And the-far-away flocks.

            e!

    Beautiful eagle!


            F

     [Illustration]

    F was a fan
    Made of beautiful stuff;
    And when it was used,
    It went puffy-puff-puff!

            f!

    Nice little fan!


            G

     [Illustration]

    G was a gooseberry,
    Perfectly red;
    To be made into jam,
    And eaten with bread.

            g!

    Gooseberry red!


            H

     [Illustration]

    H was a heron,
    Who stood in a stream:
    The length of his neck
    And his legs was extreme.

            h!

    Long-legged heron!


            I

     [Illustration]

    I was an inkstand,
    Which stood on a table,
    With a nice pen to write with
    When we are able.

            i!

    Neat little inkstand!


            J

     [Illustration]

    J was a jug,
    So pretty and white,
    With fresh water in it
    At morning and night.

            j!

    Nice little jug!


            K

     [Illustration]

    K was a kingfisher:
    Quickly he flew,
    So bright and so pretty!--
    Green, purple, and blue.

            k!

    Kingfisher blue!

            L

     [Illustration]

    L was a lily,
    So white and so sweet!
    To see it and smell it
    Was quite a nice treat.

            l!

    Beautiful lily!


            M

     [Illustration]

    M was a man,
    Who walked round and round;
    And he wore a long coat
    That came down to the ground.

            m!

    Funny old man!


            N

     [Illustration]

    N was a nut
    So smooth and so brown!
    And when it was ripe,
    It fell tumble-dum-down.

            n!

    Nice little nut!


            O

     [Illustration]

    O was an oyster,
    Who lived in his shell:
    If you let him alone,
    He felt perfectly well.

            o!

    Open-mouthed oyster!


            P

     [Illustration]

    P was a polly,
    All red, blue, and green,--
    The most beautiful polly
    That ever was seen.

            p!

    Poor little polly!


            Q

     [Illustration]

    Q was a quill
    Made into a pen;
    But I do not know where,
    And I cannot say when.

            q!

    Nice little quill!


            R

     [Illustration]

    R was a rattlesnake,
    Rolled up so tight,
    Those who saw him ran quickly,
    For fear he should bite.

            r!

    Rattlesnake bite!


            S

     [Illustration]

    S was a screw
    To screw down a box;
    And then it was fastened
    Without any locks.

            s!

    Valuable screw!


            T

     [Illustration]

    T was a thimble,
    Of silver so bright!
    When placed on the finger,
    It fitted so tight!

            t!

    Nice little thimble!


            U

     [Illustration]

    U was an upper-coat,
    Woolly and warm,
    To wear over all
    In the snow or the storm.

            u!

    What a nice upper-coat!


            V

     [Illustration]

    V was a veil
    With a border upon it,
    And a ribbon to tie it
    All round a pink bonnet.

            v!

    Pretty green veil!


            W

     [Illustration]

    W was a watch,
    Where, in letters of gold,
    The hour of the day
    You might always behold.

            w!

    Beautiful watch!


            X

     [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who wore on his head
    A mighty large turban,
    Green, yellow, and red.

            x!

    Look at King Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

    Y was a yak,
    From the land of Thibet:
    Except his white tail,
    He was all black as jet.

            y!

    Look at the yak!


            Z

     [Illustration]

    Z was a zebra,
    All striped white and black;
    And if he were tame,
    You might ride on his back.

            z!

    Pretty striped zebra!

﻿

[Illustration]

    There was a young person of Bantry,
    Who frequently slept in the pantry;
    When disturbed by the mice, she appeased them with rice,
    That judicious young person of Bantry.

[Illustration]

    There was an Old Man at a Junction,
    Whose feelings were wrung with compunction
    When they said, "The Train's gone!" he exclaimed, "How forlorn!"
    But remained on the rails of the Junction.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Minety,
    Who purchased five hundred and ninety
    Large apples and pears, which he threw unawares
    At the heads of the people of Minety.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Thermopylae,
    Who never did anything properly;
    But they said, "If you choose to boil eggs in your shoes,
    You shall never remain in Thermopylae."

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Deal,
    Who in walking used only his heel;
    When they said, "Tell us why?" he made no reply,
    That mysterious old person of Deal.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man on the Humber,
    Who dined on a cake of Burnt Umber;
    When he said, "It's enough!" they only said, "Stuff!
    You amazing old man on the Humber!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old man in a barge,
    Whose nose was exceedingly large;
    But in fishing by night, it supported a light,
    Which helped that old man in a barge.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Dunrose;
    A parrot seized hold of his nose.
    When he grew melancholy, they said, "His name's Polly,"
    Which soothed that old man of Dunrose.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Toulouse
    Who purchased a new pair of shoes;
    When they asked, "Are they pleasant?" he said, "Not at present!"
    That turbid old man of Toulouse.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bree,
    Who frequented the depths of the sea;
    She nurs'd the small fishes, and washed all the dishes,
    And swam back again into Bree.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bromley,
    Whose ways were not cheerful or comely;
    He sate in the dust, eating spiders and crust,
    That unpleasing old person of Bromley.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Shields,
    Who frequented the vallies and fields;
    All the mice and the cats, and the snakes and the rats,
    Followed after that person of Shields.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Dunluce,
    Who went out to sea on a goose:
    When he'd gone out a mile, he observ'd with a smile,
    "It is time to return to Dunluce."

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Dee-side
    Whose hat was exceedingly wide,
    But he said, "Do not fail, if it happen to hail,
    To come under my hat at Dee-side!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person in black,
    A Grasshopper jumped on his back;
    When it chirped in his ear, he was smitten with fear,
    That helpless old person in black.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of the Dargle
    Who purchased six barrels of Gargle;
    For he said, "I'll sit still, and will roll them down hill,
    For the fish in the depths of the Dargle."

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Pinner,
    As thin as a lath, if not thinner;
    They dressed him in white, and roll'd him up tight,
    That elastic old person of Pinner.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of China,
    Whose daughters were Jiska and Dinah,
    Amelia and Fluffy, Olivia and Chuffy,
    And all of them settled in China.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man in a Marsh,
    Whose manners were futile and harsh;
    He sate on a log, and sang songs to a frog,
    That instructive old man in a Marsh.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Brill,
    Who purchased a shirt with a frill;
    But they said, "Don't you wish, you mayn't look like a fish,
    You obsequious old person of Brill?"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Wick,
    Who said, "Tick-a-Tick, Tick-a-Tick;
    Chickabee, Chickabaw." And he said nothing more,
    That laconic old person of Wick.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man at a Station,
    Who made a promiscuous oration;
    But they said, "Take some snuff!--You have talk'd quite enough,
    You afflicting old man at a Station!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Three Bridges,
    Whose mind was distracted by midges,
    He sate on a wheel, eating underdone veal,
    Which relieved that old man of Three Bridges.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Hong Kong,
    Who never did anything wrong;
    He lay on his back, with his head in a sack,
    That innocuous old man of Hong Kong.

[Illustration]

    There was a young person in green,
    Who seldom was fit to be seen;
    She wore a long shawl, over bonnet and all,
    Which enveloped that person in green.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Fife,
    Who was greatly disgusted with life;
    They sang him a ballad, and fed him on salad,
    Which cured that old person of Fife.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man who screamed out
    Whenever they knocked him about:
    So they took off his boots, and fed him with fruits,
    And continued to knock him about.

[Illustration]

    There was a young lady in white,
    Who looked out at the depths of the night;
    But the birds of the air, filled her heart with despair,
    And oppressed that young lady in white.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Slough,
    Who danced at the end of a bough;
    But they said, "If you sneeze, you might damage the trees,
    You imprudent old person of Slough."

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Down,
    Whose face was adorned with a frown;
    When he opened the door, for one minute or more,
    He alarmed all the people of Down.

[Illustration]

    There was a young person in red,
    Who carefully covered her head,
    With a bonnet of leather, and three lines of feather,
    Besides some long ribands of red.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Hove,
    Who frequented the depths of a grove;
    Where he studied his books, with the wrens and the rooks,
    That tranquil old person of Hove.

[Illustration]

    There was a young person in pink,
    Who called out for something to drink;
    But they said, "O my daughter, there's nothing but water!"
    Which vexed that young person in pink.

[Illustration]

    There was an old lady of France,
    Who taught little ducklings to dance;
    When she said, "Tick-a-tack!" they only said, "Quack!"
    Which grieved that old lady of France.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Putney,
    Whose food was roast spiders and chutney,
    Which he took with his tea, within sight of the sea,
    That romantic old person of Putney.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Loo,
    Who said, "What on earth shall I do?"
    When they said, "Go away!" she continued to stay,
    That vexatious old person of Loo.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Woking,
    Whose mind was perverse and provoking;
    He sate on a rail, with his head in a pail,
    That illusive old person of Woking.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Dean
    Who dined on one pea, and one bean;
    For he said, "More than that, would make me too fat,"
    That cautious old person of Dean.

[Illustration]

    There was a young lady in blue,
    Who said, "Is it you? Is it you?"
    When they said, "Yes, it is," she replied only, "Whizz!"
    That ungracious young lady in blue.

[Illustration]

    There was an old Man in a Garden,
    Who always begged every one's pardon;
    When they asked him, "What for?" he replied, "You're a bore!
    And I trust you'll go out of my garden."

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Pisa,
    Whose daughters did nothing to please her;
    She dressed them in gray, and banged them all day,
    Round the walls of the city of Pisa.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Florence,
    Who held mutton chops in abhorrence;
    He purchased a Bustard, and fried him in Mustard,
    Which choked that old person of Florence.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Sheen,
    Whose expression was calm and serene;
    He sate in the water, and drank bottled porter,
    That placid old person of Sheen.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Ware,
    Who rode on the back of a bear;
    When they ask'd, "Does it trot?" he said, "Certainly not!
    He's a Moppsikon Floppsikon bear!"

[Illustration]

    There was a young person of Janina,
    Whose uncle was always a fanning her;
    When he fanned off her head, she smiled sweetly, and said,
    "You propitious old person of Janina!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Cashmere,
    Whose movements were scroobious and queer;
    Being slender and tall, he looked over a wall,
    And perceived two fat ducks of Cashmere.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Cassel,
    Whose nose finished off in a tassel;
    But they call'd out, "Oh well! don't it look like a bell!"
    Which perplexed that old person of Cassel.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Pett,
    Who was partly consumed by regret;
    He sate in a cart, and ate cold apple tart,
    Which relieved that old person of Pett.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Spithead,
    Who opened the window, and said,--
    "Fil-jomble, fil-jumble, fil-rumble-come-tumble!"
    That doubtful old man of Spithead.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man on the Border,
    Who lived in the utmost disorder;
    He danced with the cat, and made tea in his hat,
    Which vexed all the folks on the Border.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Dumbree,
    Who taught little owls to drink tea;
    For he said, "To eat mice is not proper or nice,"
    That amiable man of Dumbree.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Filey,
    Of whom his acquaintance spoke highly;
    He danced perfectly well, to the sound of a bell,
    And delighted the people of Filey.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man whose remorse
    Induced him to drink Caper Sauce;
    For they said, "If mixed up with some cold claret-cup,
    It will certainly soothe your remorse!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Ibreem,
    Who suddenly threaten'd to scream;
    But they said, "If you do, we will thump you quite blue,
    You disgusting old man of Ibreem!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Wilts,
    Who constantly walked upon stilts;
    He wreathed them with lilies and daffy-down-dillies,
    That elegant person of Wilts.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Grange,
    Whose manners were scroobious and strange;
    He sailed to St. Blubb in a waterproof tub,
    That aquatic old person of Grange.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Newry,
    Whose manners were tinctured with fury;
    He tore all the rugs, and broke all the jugs,
    Within twenty miles' distance of Newry.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Dumblane,
    Who greatly resembled a crane;
    But they said, "Is it wrong, since your legs are so long,
    To request you won't stay in Dumblane?"

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Port Grigor,
    Whose actions were noted for vigour;
    He stood on his head till his waistcoat turned red,
    That eclectic old man of Port Grigor.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of El Hums,
    Who lived upon nothing but crumbs,
    Which he picked off the ground, with the other birds round,
    In the roads and the lanes of El Hums.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of West Dumpet,
    Who possessed a large nose like a trumpet;
    When he blew it aloud, it astonished the crowd,
    And was heard through the whole of West Dumpet.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Sark,
    Who made an unpleasant remark;
    But they said, "Don't you see what a brute you must be,
    You obnoxious old person of Sark!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old man whose despair
    Induced him to purchase a hare:
    Whereon one fine day he rode wholly away,
    Which partly assuaged his despair.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Barnes,
    Whose garments were covered with darns;
    But they said, "Without doubt, you will soon wear them out,
    You luminous person of Barnes!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Nice,
    Whose associates were usually Geese.
    They walked out together in all sorts of weather,
    That affable person of Nice!

[Illustration]

    There was a young lady of Greenwich,
    Whose garments were border'd with Spinach;
    But a large spotty Calf bit her shawl quite in half,
    Which alarmed that young lady of Greenwich.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Cannes,
    Who purchased three fowls and a fan;
    Those she placed on a stool, and to make them feel cool
    She constantly fanned them at Cannes.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Ickley,
    Who could not abide to ride quickly;
    He rode to Karnak on a tortoise's back,
    That moony old person of Ickley.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Hyde,
    Who walked by the shore with his bride,
    Till a Crab who came near fill'd their bosoms with fear,
    And they said, "Would we'd never left Hyde!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person in gray,
    Whose feelings were tinged with dismay;
    She purchased two parrots, and fed them with carrots,
    Which pleased that old person in gray.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Ancona,
    Who found a small dog with no owner,
    Which he took up and down all the streets of the town,
    That anxious old man of Ancona.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Sestri,
    Who sate himself down in the vestry;
    When they said, "You are wrong!" he merely said "Bong!"
    That repulsive old person of Sestri.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Blythe,
    Who cut up his meat with a scythe;
    When they said, "Well! I never!" he cried, "Scythes for ever!"
    That lively old person of Blythe.

[Illustration]

    There was a young person of Ayr,
    Whose head was remarkably square:
    On the top, in fine weather, she wore a gold feather;
    Which dazzled the people of Ayr.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Rimini,
    Who said, "Gracious! Goodness! O Gimini!"
    When they said, "Please be still!" she ran down a hill,
    And was never more heard of at Rimini.

[Illustration]

    There is a young lady, whose nose,
    Continually prospers and grows;
    When it grew out of sight, she exclaimed in a fright,
    "Oh! Farewell to the end of my nose!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Ealing,
    Who was wholly devoid of good feeling;
    He drove a small gig, with three Owls and a Pig,
    Which distressed all the people of Ealing.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Thames Ditton,
    Who called out for something to sit on;
    But they brought him a hat, and said, "Sit upon that,
    You abruptious old man of Thames Ditton!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bray,
    Who sang through the whole of the day
    To his ducks and his pigs, whom he fed upon figs,
    That valuable person of Bray.

[Illustration]

    There was a young person whose history
    Was always considered a mystery;
    She sate in a ditch, although no one knew which,
    And composed a small treatise on history.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bow,
    Whom nobody happened to know;
    So they gave him some soap, and said coldly, "We hope
    You will go back directly to Bow!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Rye,
    Who went up to town on a fly;
    But they said, "If you cough, you are safe to fall off!
    You abstemious old person of Rye!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Crowle,
    Who lived in the nest of an owl;
    When they screamed in the nest, he screamed out with the rest,
    That depressing old person of Crowle.

[Illustration]

    There was an old Lady of Winchelsea,
    Who said, "If you needle or pin shall see
    On the floor of my room, sweep it up with the broom!"
    That exhaustive old Lady of Winchelsea!

[Illustration]

    There was an old man in a tree,
    Whose whiskers were lovely to see;
    But the birds of the air pluck'd them perfectly bare,
    To make themselves nests in that tree.

[Illustration]

    There was a young lady of Corsica,
    Who purchased a little brown saucy-cur;
    Which she fed upon ham, and hot raspberry jam,
    That expensive young lady of Corsica.

[Illustration]

    There was a young lady of Firle,
    Whose hair was addicted to curl;
    It curled up a tree, and all over the sea,
    That expansive young lady of Firle.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Stroud,
    Who was horribly jammed in a crowd;
    Some she slew with a kick, some she scrunched with a stick,
    That impulsive old person of Stroud.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Boulak,
    Who sate on a Crocodile's back;
    But they said, "Towr'ds the night he may probably bite,
    Which might vex you, old man of Boulak!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Skye,
    Who waltz'd with a Bluebottle fly:
    They buzz'd a sweet tune, to the light of the moon,
    And entranced all the people of Skye.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Blackheath,
    Whose head was adorned with a wreath
    Of lobsters and spice, pickled onions and mice,
    That uncommon old man of Blackheath.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man, who when little
    Fell casually into a kettle;
    But, growing too stout, he could never get out,
    So he passed all his life in that kettle.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Dundalk,
    Who tried to teach fishes to walk;
    When they tumbled down dead, he grew weary, and said,
    "I had better go back to Dundalk!"

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Shoreham,
    Whose habits were marked by decorum;
    He bought an Umbrella, and sate in the cellar,
    Which pleased all the people of Shoreham.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bar,
    Who passed all her life in a jar,
    Which she painted pea-green, to appear more serene,
    That placid old person of Bar.

[Illustration]

    There was a young person of Kew,
    Whose virtues and vices were few;
    But with blamable haste she devoured some hot paste,
    Which destroyed that young person of Kew.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Jodd,
    Whose ways were perplexing and odd;
    She purchased a whistle, and sate on a thistle,
    And squeaked to the people of Jodd.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bude,
    Whose deportment was vicious and crude;
    He wore a large ruff of pale straw-colored stuff,
    Which perplexed all the people of Bude.

[Illustration]

    There was an old person of Brigg,
    Who purchased no end of a wig;
    So that only his nose, and the end of his toes,
    Could be seen when he walked about Brigg.

[Illustration]

    There was an old man of Messina,
    Whose daughter was named Opsibeena;
    She wore a small wig, and rode out on a pig,
    To the perfect delight of Messina.




TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES.


[Illustration]

    The Absolutely Abstemious Ass,
    who resided in a Barrel, and only lived on
    Soda Water and Pickled Cucumbers.

[Illustration]

    The Bountiful Beetle,
    who always carried a Green Umbrella when it didn't rain,
    and left it at home when it did.

[Illustration]

    The Comfortable Confidential Cow,
    who sate in her Red Morocco Arm Chair and
    toasted her own Bread at the parlour Fire.

[Illustration]

    The Dolomphious Duck,
    who caught Spotted Frogs for her dinner
    with a Runcible Spoon.

[Illustration]

    The Enthusiastic Elephant,
    who ferried himself across the water with the
    Kitchen Poker and a New pair of Ear-rings.

[Illustration]

    The Fizzgiggious Fish,
    who always walked about upon Stilts,
    because he had no legs.

[Illustration]

    The Good-natured Grey Gull,
    who carried the Old Owl, and his Crimson Carpet-bag,
    across the river, because he could not swim.

[Illustration]

    The Hasty Higgeldipiggledy Hen,
    who went to market in a Blue Bonnet and Shawl,
    and bought a Fish for her Supper.

[Illustration]

    The Inventive Indian,
    who caught a Remarkable Rabbit in a
    Stupendous Silver Spoon.

[Illustration]

    The Judicious Jubilant Jay,
    who did up her Back Hair every morning with a Wreath of Roses,
    Three feathers, and a Gold Pin.

[Illustration]

    The Kicking Kangaroo,
    who wore a Pale Pink Muslin dress
    with Blue spots.

[Illustration]

    The Lively Learned Lobster,
    who mended his own Clothes with
    a Needle and Thread.

[Illustration]

    The Melodious Meritorious Mouse,
    who played a merry minuet on the
    Piano-forte.

[Illustration]

    The Nutritious Newt,
    who purchased a Round Plum-pudding
    for his grand-daughter.

[Illustration]

    The Obsequious Ornamental Ostrich,
    who wore Boots to keep his
    feet quite dry.

    [Illustration: PARSNIP PIE]

    The Perpendicular Purple Polly,
    who read the Newspaper and ate Parsnip Pie
    with his Spectacles.

[Illustration]

    The Queer Querulous Quail,
    who smoked a Pipe of tobacco on the top of
    a Tin Tea-kettle.

[Illustration]

    The Rural Runcible Raven,
    who wore a White Wig and flew away
    with the Carpet Broom.

[Illustration]

    The Scroobious Snake,
    who always wore a Hat on his Head, for
    fear he should bite anybody.

[Illustration]

    The Tumultuous Tom-tommy Tortoise,
    who beat a Drum all day long in the
    middle of the wilderness.

[Illustration]

    The Umbrageous Umbrella-maker,
    whose Face nobody ever saw, because it was
    always covered by his Umbrella.

[Illustration]

    The Visibly Vicious Vulture,
    who wrote some Verses to a Veal-cutlet in a
    Volume bound in Vellum.

[Illustration]

    The Worrying Whizzing Wasp,
    who stood on a Table, and played sweetly on a
    Flute with a Morning Cap.

[Illustration]

    The Excellent Double-extra XX
    imbibing King Xerxes, who lived a
    long while ago.

[Illustration]

    The Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
    whose Head was ever so much bigger than his
    Body, and whose Hat was rather small.

[Illustration]

    The Zigzag Zealous Zebra,
    who carried five Monkeys on his back all
    the way to Jellibolee.



  "How pleasant to know Mr. Lear!"

      "How pleasant to know Mr. Lear!"
        Who has written such volumes of stuff!
      Some think him ill-tempered and queer,
        But a few think him pleasant enough.

      His mind is concrete and fastidious,
        His nose is remarkably big;
      His visage is more or less hideous,
        His beard it resembles a wig.

      He has ears, and two eyes, and ten fingers,
        Leastways if you reckon two thumbs;
      Long ago he was one of the singers,
        But now he is one of the dumbs.

      He sits in a beautiful parlor,
        With hundreds of books on the wall;
      He drinks a great deal of Marsala,
        But never gets tipsy at all.

      He has many friends, lay men and clerical,
        Old Foss is the name of his cat;
      His body is perfectly spherical,
        He weareth a runcible hat.

      When he walks in waterproof white,
        The children run after him so!
      Calling out, "He's come out in his night-
        Gown, that crazy old Englishman, oh!"

      He weeps by the side of the ocean,
        He weeps on the top of the hill;
      He purchases pancakes and lotion,
        And chocolate shrimps from the mill.

      He reads, but he cannot speak, Spanish,
        He cannot abide ginger beer:
      Ere the days of his pilgrimage vanish,
        How pleasant to know Mr. Lear!

  
    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a nose,
    Who said, "If you choose to suppose
    That my nose is too long, you are certainly wrong!"
    That remarkable Man with a nose.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Person of Smyrna,
    Whose Grandmother threatened to burn her;
    But she seized on the Cat, and said, "Granny, burn that!
    You incongruous Old Woman of Smyrna!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man on a hill,
    Who seldom, if ever, stood still;
    He ran up and down in his Grandmother's gown,
    Which adorned that Old Man on a hill.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Chili,
    Whose conduct was painful and silly;
    He sate on the stairs, eating apples and pears,
    That imprudent Old Person of Chili.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a gong,
    Who bumped at it all the day long;
    But they called out, "Oh, law! you're a horrid old bore!"
    So they smashed that Old Man with a gong.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Kilkenny,
    Who never had more than a penny;
    He spent all that money in onions and honey,
    That wayward Old Man of Kilkenny.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Columbia,
    Who was thirsty, and called out for some beer;
    But they brought it quite hot, in a small copper pot,
    Which disgusted that man of Columbia.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man in a tree,
    Who was horribly bored by a Bee;
    When they said, "Does it buzz?" he replied, "Yes, it does!
    It's a regular brute of a Bee."

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Lady of Chertsey,
    Who made a remarkable curtsey;
    She twirled round and round, till she sank underground,
    Which distressed all the people of Chertsey.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady whose chin
    Resembled the point of a pin;
    So she had it made sharp, and purchased a harp,
    And played several tunes with her chin.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a flute,--
    A "sarpint" ran into his boot!
    But he played day and night, till the "sarpint" took flight,
    And avoided that Man with a flute.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Portugal,
    Whose ideas were excessively nautical;
    She climbed up a tree to examine the sea,
    But declared she would never leave Portugal.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Ischia,
    Whose conduct grew friskier and friskier;
    He danced hornpipes and jigs, and ate thousands of figs,
    That lively Old Person of Ischia

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Vienna,
    Who lived upon Tincture of Senna;
    When that did not agree, he took Camomile Tea,
    That nasty Old Man of Vienna.

    [Illustraion]

    There was an Old Man in a boat,
    Who said, "I'm afloat! I'm afloat!"
    When they said, "No, you ain't!" he was ready to faint,
    That unhappy Old Man in a boat.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Buda,
    Whose conduct grew ruder and ruder,
    Till at last with a hammer they silenced his clamor.
    By smashing that Person of Buda.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Moldavia,
    Who had the most curious behavior;
    For while he was able, he slept on a table,
    That funny Old Man of Moldavia.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Hurst,
    Who drank when he was not athirst;
    When they said, "You'll grow fatter!" he answered "What matter?"
    That globular Person of Hurst.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Madras,
    Who rode on a cream-colored Ass;
    But the length of its ears so promoted his fears,
    That it killed that Old Man of Madras.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Dover,
    Who rushed through a field of blue clover;
    But some very large Bees stung his nose and his knees,
    So he very soon went back to Dover.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Leeds,
    Whose head was infested with beads;
    She sat on a stool and ate gooseberry-fool,
    Which agreed with that Person of Leeds.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Cadiz,
    Who was always polite to all ladies;
    But in handing his daughter, he fell into the water,
    Which drowned that Old Person of Cadiz.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Isles,
    Whose face was pervaded with smiles;
    He sang "High dum diddle," and played on the fiddle,
    That amiable Man of the Isles.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Basing,
    Whose presence of mind was amazing;
    He purchased a steed, which he rode at full speed,
    And escaped from the people of Basing.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man who supposed
    That the street door was partially closed;
    But some very large Rats ate his coats and his hats,
    While that futile Old Gentleman dozed.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person whose habits
    Induced him to feed upon Rabbits;
    When he'd eaten eighteen, he turned perfectly green,
    Upon which he relinquished those habits.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the West,
    Who wore a pale plum-colored vest;
    When they said, "Does it fit?" he replied, "Not a bit!"
    That uneasy Old Man of the West.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Marseilles,
    Whose daughters wore bottle-green veils:
    They caught several Fish, which they put in a dish,
    And sent to their Pa at Marseilles.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Wrekin,
    Whose shoes made a horrible creaking;
    But they said, "Tell us whether your shoes are of leather,
    Or of what, you Old Man of the Wrekin?"

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady whose nose
    Was so long that it reached to her toes;
    So she hired an Old Lady, whose conduct was steady,
    To carry that wonderful nose.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Norway,
    Who casually sat in a doorway;
    When the door squeezed her flat, she exclaimed, "What of that?"
    This courageous Young Lady of Norway.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Apulia,
    Whose conduct was very peculiar;
    He fed twenty sons upon nothing but buns,
    That whimsical Man of Apulia.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Quebec,--
    A beetle ran over his neck;
    But he cried, "With a needle I'll slay you, O beadle!"
    That angry Old Man of Quebec.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Bute,
    Who played on a silver-gilt flute;
    She played several jigs to her Uncle's white Pigs:
    That amusing Young Lady of Bute.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Philoe,
    Whose conduct was scroobious and wily;
    He rushed up a Palm when the weather was calm,
    And observed all the ruins of Philoe.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a poker,
    Who painted his face with red ochre.
    When they said, "You 're a Guy!" he made no reply,
    But knocked them all down with his poker.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Prague,
    Who was suddenly seized with the plague;
    But they gave him some butter, which caused him to mutter,
    And cured that Old Person of Prague.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Peru,
    Who watched his wife making a stew;
    But once, by mistake, in a stove she did bake
    That unfortunate Man of Peru.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the North,
    Who fell into a basin of broth;
    But a laudable cook fished him out with a hook,
    Which saved that Old Man of the North.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Troy,
    Whose drink was warm brandy and soy,
    Which he took with a spoon, by the light of the moon,
    In sight of the city of Troy.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Mold,
    Who shrank from sensations of cold;
    So he purchased some muffs, some furs, and some fluffs,
    And wrapped himself well from the cold.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Tring,
    Who embellished his nose with a ring;
    He gazed at the moon every evening in June,
    That ecstatic Old Person of Tring.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Nepaul,
    From his horse had a terrible fall;
    But, though split quite in two, with some very strong glue
    They mended that man of Nepaul.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Nile,
    Who sharpened his nails with a file,
    Till he cut off his thumbs, and said calmly, "This comes
    Of sharpening one's nails with a file!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of th' Abruzzi,
    So blind that he couldn't his foot see;
    When they said, "That's your toe," he replied, "Is it so?"
    That doubtful Old Man of th' Abruzzi.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Calcutta,
    Who perpetually ate bread and butter;
    Till a great bit of muffin, on which he was stuffing,
    Choked that horrid Old Man of Calcutta.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Rhodes,
    Who strongly objected to toads;
    He paid several cousins to catch them by dozens,
    That futile Old Person of Rhodes.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the South,
    Who had an immoderate mouth;
    But in swallowing a dish that was quite full of Fish,
    He was choked, that Old Man of the South.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Melrose,
    Who walked on the tips of his toes;
    But they said, "It ain't pleasant to see you at present,
    You stupid Old Man of Melrose."

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Dee,
    Who was sadly annoyed by a Flea;
    When he said, "I will scratch it!" they gave him a hatchet,
    Which grieved that Old Man of the Dee.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Lucca,
    Whose lovers completely forsook her;
    She ran up a tree, and said "Fiddle-de-dee!"
    Which embarrassed the people of Lucca.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Coblenz,
    The length of whose legs was immense;
    He went with one prance from Turkey to France,
    That surprising Old Man of Coblenz.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Bohemia,
    Whose daughter was christened Euphemia;
    But one day, to his grief, she married a thief,
    Which grieved that Old Man of Bohemia.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Corfu,
    Who never knew what he should do;
    So he rushed up and down, till the sun made him brown,
    That bewildered Old Man of Corfu.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Vesuvius,
    Who studied the works of Vitruvius;
    When the flames burnt his book, to drinking he took,
    That morbid Old Man of Vesuvius.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Dundee,
    Who frequented the top of a tree;
    When disturbed by the Crows, he abruptly arose,
    And exclaimed, "I'll return to Dundee!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Lady whose folly
    Induced her to sit in a holly;
    Whereon, by a thorn her dress being torn,
    She quickly became melancholy.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man on some rocks,
    Who shut his Wife up in a box:
    When she said, "Let me out," he exclaimed, "Without doubt
    You will pass all your life in that box."

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Rheims,
    Who was troubled with horrible dreams;
    So to keep him awake they fed him with cake,
    Which amused that Old Person of Rheims.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Leghorn,
    The smallest that ever was born;
    But quickly snapt up he was once by a Puppy,
    Who devoured that Old Man of Leghorn.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man in a pew,
    Whose waistcoat was spotted with blue;
    But he tore it in pieces, to give to his Nieces,
    That cheerful Old Man in a pew.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Jamaica,
    Who suddenly married a Quaker;
    But she cried out, "Oh, lack! I have married a black!"
    Which distressed that Old Man of Jamaica.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man who said, "How
    Shall I flee from this horrible Cow?
    I will sit on this stile, and continue to smile,
    Which may soften the heart of that Cow."

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Troy,
    Whom several large flies did annoy;
    Some she killed with a thump, some she drowned at the pump,
    And some she took with her to Troy.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Hull,
    Who was chased by a virulent Bull;
    But she seized on a spade, and called out, "Who's afraid?"
    Which distracted that virulent Bull.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Dutton,
    Whose head was as small as a button;
    So to make it look big he purchased a wig,
    And rapidly rushed about Dutton.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man who said, "Hush!
    I perceive a young bird in this bush!"
    When they said, "Is it small?" he replied, "Not at all;
    It is four times as big as the bush!"

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Russia,
    Who screamed so that no one could hush her;
    Her screams were extreme,--no one heard such a scream
    As was screamed by that Lady of Russia.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Tyre,
    Who swept the loud chords of a lyre;
    At the sound of each sweep she enraptured the deep,
    And enchanted the city of Tyre.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Bangor,
    Whose face was distorted with anger;
    He tore off his boots, and subsisted on roots,
    That borascible Person of Bangor.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the East,
    Who gave all his children a feast;
    But they all ate so much, and their conduct was such,
    That it killed that Old Man of the East.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Coast,
    Who placidly sat on a post;
    But when it was cold he relinquished his hold,
    And called for some hot buttered toast.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Kamschatka,
    Who possessed a remarkably fat Cur;
    His gait and his waddle were held as a model
    To all the fat dogs in Kamschatka.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Gretna,
    Who rushed down the crater of Etna;
    When they said, "Is it hot?" he replied, "No, it's not!"
    That mendacious Old Person of Gretna.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a beard,
    Who sat on a Horse when he reared;
    But they said, "Never mind! you will fall off behind,
    You propitious Old Man with a beard!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Berlin,
    Whose form was uncommonly thin;
    Till he once, by mistake, was mixed up in a cake,
    So they baked that Old Man of Berlin.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the West,
    Who never could get any rest;
    So they set him to spin on his nose and his chin,
    Which cured that Old Man of the West.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Cheadle
    Was put in the stocks by the Beadle
    For stealing some pigs, some coats, and some wigs,
    That horrible person of Cheadle.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Anerley,
    Whose conduct was strange and unmannerly;
    He rushed down the Strand with a Pig in each hand,
    But returned in the evening to Anerley.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Wales,
    Who caught a large Fish without scales;
    When she lifted her hook, she exclaimed, "Only look!"
    That ecstatic Young Lady of Wales.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Welling,
    Whose praise all the world was a-telling;
    She played on the harp, and caught several Carp,
    That accomplished Young Lady of Welling.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Tartary,
    Who divided his jugular artery;
    But he screeched to his Wife, and she said, "Oh, my life!
    Your death will be felt by all Tartary!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Whitehaven,
    Who danced a quadrille with a Raven;
    But they said, "It's absurd to encourage this bird!"
    So they smashed that Old Man of Whitehaven.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Sweden,
    Who went by the slow train to Weedon;
    When they cried, "Weedon Station!" she made no observation,
    But thought she should go back to Sweden.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Chester,
    Whom several small children did pester;
    They threw some large stones, which broke most of his bones,
    And displeased that Old Person of Chester.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Cape,
    Who possessed a large Barbary Ape;
    Till the Ape, one dark night, set the house all alight,
    Which burned that Old Man of the Cape.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Burton,
    Whose answers were rather uncertain;
    When they said, "How d' ye do?" he replied, "Who are you?"
    That distressing Old Person of Burton.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Ems
    Who casually fell in the Thames;
    And when he was found, they said he was drowned,
    That unlucky Old Person of Ems.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Girl of Majorca,
    Whose Aunt was a very fast walker;
    She walked seventy miles, and leaped fifteen stiles,
    Which astonished that Girl of Majorca.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Poole,
    Whose soup was excessively cool;
    So she put it to boil by the aid of some oil,
    That ingenious Young Lady of Poole.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Lady of Prague,
    Whose language was horribly vague;
    When they said, "Are these caps?" she answered, "Perhaps!"
    That oracular Lady of Prague.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Parma,
    Whose conduct grew calmer and calmer:
    When they said, "Are you dumb?" she merely said, "Hum!"
    That provoking Young Lady of Parma.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Sparta,
    Who had twenty-five sons and one "darter;"
    He fed them on Snails, and weighed them in scales,
    That wonderful Person of Sparta.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man on whose nose
    Most birds of the air could repose;
    But they all flew away at the closing of day,
    Which relieved that Old Man and his nose.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Turkey,
    Who wept when the weather was murky;
    When the day turned out fine, she ceased to repine,
    That capricious Young Lady of Turkey.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Aôsta
    Who possessed a large Cow, but he lost her;
    But they said, "Don't you see she has run up a tree,
    You invidious Old Man of Aôsta?"

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Person of Crete,
    Whose toilette was far from complete;
    She dressed in a sack spickle-speckled with black,
    That ombliferous Person of Crete.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Clare,
    Who was madly pursued by a Bear;
    When she found she was tired, she abruptly expired,
    That unfortunate Lady of Clare.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Dorking,
    Who bought a large bonnet for walking;
    But its color and size so bedazzled her eyes,
    That she very soon went back to Dorking.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Cape Horn,
    Who wished he had never been born;
    So he sat on a Chair till he died of despair,
    That dolorous Man of Cape Horn.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old Person of Cromer,
    Who stood on one leg to read Homer;
    When he found he grew stiff, he jumped over the cliff,
    Which concluded that Person of Cromer.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of the Hague,
    Whose ideas were excessively vague;
    He built a balloon to examine the moon,
    That deluded Old Man of the Hague.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Spain,
    Who hated all trouble and pain;
    So he sate on a chair with his feet in the air,
    That umbrageous Old Person of Spain.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man who said, "Well!
    Will _nobody_ answer this bell?
    I have pulled day and night, till my hair has grown white,
    But nobody answers this bell!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with an Owl,
    Who continued to bother and howl;
    He sat on a rail, and imbibed bitter ale,
    Which refreshed that Old Man and his Owl.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man in a casement,
    Who held up his hands in amazement;
    When they said, "Sir, you'll fall!" he replied, "Not at all!"
    That incipient Old Man in a casement.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Person of Ewell,
    Who chiefly subsisted on gruel;
    But to make it more nice, he inserted some Mice,
    Which refreshed that Old Person of Ewell.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man of Peru.
    Who never knew what he should do;
    So he tore off his hair, and behaved like a bear,
    That intrinsic Old Man of Peru.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man with a beard,
    Who said, "It is just as I feared!--
    Two Owls and a Hen, four Larks and a Wren,
    Have all built their nests in my beard."

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady whose eyes
    Were unique as to color and size;
    When she opened them wide, people all turned aside,
    And started away in surprise.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady of Ryde,
    Whose shoe-strings were seldom untied;
    She purchased some clogs, and some small spotty Dogs,
    And frequently walked about Ryde.

    [Illustration]

    There was a Young Lady whose bonnet
    Came untied when the birds sate upon it;
    But she said, "I don't care! all the birds in the air
    Are welcome to sit on my bonnet!"




       *        *        *        *        *


NONSENSE SONGS

Stories, Botany, and Alphabets

by

EDWARD LEAR.

With One Hundred and Fifty Illustrations






[Illustration]



CONTENTS.

    NONSENSE SONGS.
        THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT
        THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO
        THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY
        THE JUMBLIES
        THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS
        CALICO PIE
        MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW
        THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS THE TABLE AND THE
        CHAIR

    NONSENSE STORIES.
        THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD
        THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE

    NONSENSE COOKERY

    NONSENSE BOTANY

    NONSENSE ALPHABET, No. 1
      "  "  No. 2
      "  "  No. 3





NONSENSE SONGS.


THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to sea
      In a beautiful pea-green boat:
    They took some honey, and plenty of money
      Wrapped up in a five-pound note.
    The Owl looked up to the stars above,
      And sang to a small guitar,
   "O lovely Pussy, O Pussy, my love,
        What a beautiful Pussy you are,
          You are,
          You are!
      What a beautiful Pussy you are!"


                    II.

    Pussy said to the Owl, "You elegant fowl,
      How charmingly sweet you sing!
    Oh! let us be married; too long we have tarried:
      But what shall we do for a ring?"
    They sailed away, for a year and a day,
      To the land where the bong-tree grows;
    And there in a wood a Piggy-wig stood,
      With a ring at the end of his nose,
          His nose,
          His nose,
      With a ring at the end of his nose.


                    III.

    "Dear Pig, are you willing to sell for one shilling
      Your ring?" Said the Piggy, "I will."
    So they took it away, and were married next day
      By the Turkey who lives on the hill.
    They dined on mince and slices of quince,
      Which they ate with a runcible spoon;
    And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,
      They danced by the light of the moon,
          The moon,
          The moon,
    They danced by the light of the moon.

[Illustration]




THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    Said the Duck to the Kangaroo,
       "Good gracious! how you hop
    Over the fields, and the water too,
        As if you never would stop!
    My life is a bore in this nasty pond;
    And I long to go out in the world beyond:
        I wish I could hop like you,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.


                    II.

   "Please give me a ride on your back,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo:
   "I would sit quite still, and say nothing but 'Quack'
        The whole of the long day through;
    And we 'd go the Dee, and the Jelly Bo Lee,
    Over the land, and over the sea:
        Please take me a ride! oh, do!"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

              [Illustration]


                    III.

    Said the Kangaroo to the Duck,
       "This requires some little reflection.
    Perhaps, on the whole, it might bring me luck;
        And there seems but one objection;
    Which is, if you'll let me speak so bold,
    Your feet are unpleasantly wet and cold,
        And would probably give me the roo-
        Matiz," said the Kangaroo.

              [Illustration]


                    IV.

    Said the Duck, "As I sate on the rocks,
        I have thought over that completely;
    And I bought four pairs of worsted socks,
        Which fit my web-feet neatly;
    And, to keep out the cold, I've bought a cloak;
    And every day a cigar I'll smoke;
        All to follow my own dear true
        Love of a Kangaroo."


                    V.

    Said the Kangaroo, "I'm ready,
        All in the moonlight pale;
    But to balance me well, dear Duck, sit steady,
        And quite at the end of my tail."
    So away they went with a hop and a bound;
    And they hopped the whole world three times round.
        And who so happy, oh! who,
        As the Duck and the Kangaroo?

             [Illustration]




THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    Once Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
        Dressed in brown and gray,
    Walked about upon the sands
        Upon a summer's day:
    And there among the pebbles,
        When the wind was rather cold,
    He met with Mr. Floppy Fly,
        All dressed in blue and gold;
    And, as it was too soon to dine,
    They drank some periwinkle-wine,
    And played an hour or two, or more,
    At battlecock and shuttledore.


                    II.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        To Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "Why do you never come to court?
        I wish you 'd tell me why.
    All gold and shine, in dress so fine,
        You'd quite delight the court.
    Why do you never go at all?
        I really think you _ought_.
    And, if you went, you'd see such sights!
    Such rugs and jugs and candle-lights!
    And, more than all, the king and queen,--
    One in red, and one in green."


                    III.

    "O Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "It's true I never go to court;
        And I will tell you why.
    If I had six long legs like yours,
        At once I'd go to court;
    But, oh! I can't, because _my_ legs
        Are so extremely short.
    And I'm afraid the king and queen
    (One in red, and one in green)
    Would say aloud, 'You are not fit,
    You Fly, to come to court a bit!'"


                    IV.

    "Oh, Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "I wish you 'd sing one little song,
        One mumbian melody.
    You used to sing so awful well
        In former days gone by;
    But now you never sing at all:
        I wish you'd tell me why:
    For, if you would, the silvery sound
    Would please the shrimps and cockles round,
    And all the crabs would gladly come
    To hear you sing, 'Ah, Hum di Hum!'"


                    V.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
       "I can never sing again;
    And, if you wish, I'll tell you why,
        Although it gives me pain.
    For years I cannot hum a bit,
        Or sing the smallest song;
    And this the dreadful reason is,--
        My legs are grown too long!
    My six long legs, all here and there,
    Oppress my bosom with despair;
    And, if I stand or lie or sit,
    I cannot sing one single bit!"


                    VI.

    So Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Sat down in silence by the sea,
        And gazed upon the sky.
    They said, "This is a dreadful thing!
        The world has all gone wrong,
    Since one has legs too short by half,
        The other much too long.
    One never more can go to court,
    Because his legs have grown too short;
    The other cannot sing a song,
    Because his legs have grown too long!"


                    VII.

    Then Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Rushed downward to the foamy sea
        With one sponge-taneous cry:
    And there they found a little boat,
        Whose sails were pink and gray;
    And off they sailed among the waves,
        Far and far away:
    They sailed across the silent main,
    And reached the great Gromboolian Plain;
    And there they play forevermore
    At battlecock and shuttledore.

[Illustration]




THE JUMBLIES.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    They went to sea in a sieve, they did;
        In a sieve they went to sea:
    In spite of all their friends could say,
    On a winter's morn, on a stormy day,
        In a sieve they went to sea.
    And when the sieve turned round and round,
    And every one cried, "You'll all be drowned!"
    They called aloud, "Our sieve ain't big;
    But we don't care a button, we don't care a fig:
        In a sieve we'll go to sea!"
             Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
             Their heads are green, and their hands are blue
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     II.

    They sailed away in a sieve, they did,
        In a sieve they sailed so fast,
    With only a beautiful pea-green veil
    Tied with a ribbon, by way of a sail,
        To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
    And every one said who saw them go,
   "Oh! won't they be soon upset, you know?
    For the sky is dark, and the voyage is long;
    And, happen what may, it's extremely wrong
        In a sieve to sail so fast."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     III.

    The water it soon came in, it did;
        The water it soon came in:
    So, to keep them dry, they wrapped their feet
        In a pinky paper all folded neat;
    And they fastened it down with a pin.
    And they passed the night in a crockery-jar;
    And each of them said, "How wise we are!
    Though the sky be dark, and the voyage be long,
    Yet we never can think we were rash or wrong,
        While round in our sieve we spin."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     IV.

    And all night long they sailed away;
        And when the sun went down,
    They whistled and warbled a moony song
        To the echoing sound of a coppery gong,
    In the shade of the mountains brown.
   "O Timballoo! How happy we are
    When we live in a sieve and a crockery-jar!
    And all night long, in the moonlight pale,
    We sail away with a pea-green sail
        In the shade of the mountains brown."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     V.

    They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,--
        To a land all covered with trees:
    And they bought an owl, and a useful cart,
        And a pound of rice, and a cranberry-tart,
    And a hive of silvery bees;
    And they bought a pig, and some green jackdaws,
    And a lovely monkey with lollipop paws,
    And forty bottles of ring-bo-ree,
        And no end of Stilton cheese.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     VI.

    And in twenty years they all came back,--
        In twenty years or more;
    And every one said, "How tall they've grown!
        For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
    And the hills of the Chankly Bore."
    And they drank their health, and gave them a feast
    Of dumplings made of beautiful yeast;
    And every one said, "If we only live,
    We, too, will go to sea in a sieve,
        To the hills of the Chankly Bore."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.




THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    The Nutcrackers sate by a plate on the table;
        The Sugar-tongs sate by a plate at his side;
    And the Nutcrackers said, "Don't you wish we were able
        Along the blue hills and green meadows to ride?
    Must we drag on this stupid existence forever,
        So idle and weary, so full of remorse,
    While every one else takes his pleasure, and never
        Seems happy unless he is riding a horse?


                     II.

    "Don't you think we could ride without being instructed,
        Without any saddle or bridle or spur?
    Our legs are so long, and so aptly constructed,
        I'm sure that an accident could not occur.
    Let us all of a sudden hop down from the table,
        And hustle downstairs, and each jump on a horse!
    Shall we try? Shall we go? Do you think we are able?"
        The Sugar-tongs answered distinctly, "Of course!"


                     III.

    So down the long staircase they hopped in a minute;
        The Sugar-tongs snapped, and the Crackers said "Crack!"
    The stable was open; the horses were in it:
        Each took out a pony, and jumped on his back.
    The Cat in a fright scrambled out of the doorway;
        The Mice tumbled out of a bundle of hay;
    The brown and white Rats, and the black ones from Norway,
        Screamed out, "They are taking the horses away!"


                     IV.

    The whole of the household was filled with amazement:
        The Cups and the Saucers danced madly about;
    The Plates and the Dishes looked out of the casement;
        The Salt-cellar stood on his head with a shout;
    The Spoons, with a clatter, looked out of the lattice;
        The Mustard-pot climbed up the gooseberry-pies;
    The Soup-ladle peeped through a heap of veal-patties,
        And squeaked with a ladle-like scream of surprise.


                     V.

    The Frying-pan said, "It's an awful delusion!"
        The Tea-kettle hissed, and grew black in the face;
    And they all rushed downstairs in the wildest confusion
        To see the great Nutcracker-Sugar-tong race.
    And out of the stable, with screamings and laughter
        (Their ponies were cream-colored, speckled with brown),
    The Nutcrackers first, and the Sugar-tongs after;
        Rode all round the yard, and then all round the town.


                     VI.

    They rode through the street, and they rode by the station;
        They galloped away to the beautiful shore;
    In silence they rode, and "made no observation,"
        Save this: "We will never go back any more!"
    And still you might hear, till they rode out of hearing,
        The Sugar-tongs snap, and the Crackers say "Crack!"
    Till, far in the distance their forms disappearing,
        They faded away; and they never came back!




CALICO PIE.

[Illustration]

                     I.

      Calico pie,
      The little birds fly
    Down to the calico-tree:
      Their wings were blue,
      And they sang "Tilly-loo!"
      Till away they flew;
        And they never came back to me!
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me!


                     II.

      Calico jam,
      The little Fish swam
    Over the Syllabub Sea.
      He took off his hat
      To the Sole and the Sprat,
      And the Willeby-wat:
        But he never came back to me;
          He never came back,
          He never came back,
        He never came back to me.

               [Illustration]


                     III.

      Calico ban,
      The little Mice ran
    To be ready in time for tea;
      Flippity flup,
      They drank it all up,
      And danced in the cup:
        But they never came back to me;
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me.

               [Illustration]


                     IV.

      Calico drum,
      The Grasshoppers come,
    The Butterfly, Beetle, and Bee,
      Over the ground,
      Around and round,
      With a hop and a bound;
        But they never came back,
          They never came back,
          They never came back.
        They never came back to me.

               [Illustration]




MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    On a little piece of wood
    Mr. Spikky Sparrow stood:
    Mrs. Sparrow sate close by,
    A-making of an insect-pie
    For her little children five,
    In the nest and all alive;
    Singing with a cheerful smile,
    To amuse them all the while,
       "Twikky wikky wikky wee,
        Wikky bikky twikky tee,
            Spikky bikky bee!"


                     II.

    Mrs. Spikky Sparrow said,
    "Spikky, darling! in my head
    Many thoughts of trouble come,
    Like to flies upon a plum.
    All last night, among the trees,
    I heard you cough, I heard you sneeze;
    And thought I, 'It's come to that
    Because he does not wear a hat!'
        Chippy wippy sikky tee,
        Bikky wikky tikky mee,
            Spikky chippy wee!


                     III.

    "Not that you are growing old;
    But the nights are growing cold.
    No one stays out all night long
    Without a hat: I'm sure it's wrong!"
    Mr. Spikky said, "How kind,
    Dear, you are, to speak your mind!
    All your life I wish you luck!
    You are, you are, a lovely duck!
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twitchy witchy witchy bee,
            Tikky tikky tee!


                     IV.

    "I was also sad, and thinking,
    When one day I saw you winking,
    And I heard you sniffle-snuffle,
    And I saw your feathers ruffle:
    To myself I sadly said,
    'She's neuralgia in her head!
    That dear head has nothing on it!
    Ought she not to wear a bonnet?'
        Witchy kitchy kitchy wee,
        Spikky wikky mikky bee,
            Chippy wippy chee!


                     V.

    "Let us both fly up to town:
    There I'll buy you such a gown!
    Which, completely in the fashion,
    You shall tie a sky-blue sash on;
    And a pair of slippers neat
    To fit your darling little feet,
    So that you will look and feel
    Quite galloobious and genteel.
        Jikky wikky bikky see,
        Chicky bikky wikky bee,
            Twicky witchy wee!"


                     VI.

    So they both to London went,
    Alighting on the Monument;
    Whence they flew down swiftly--pop!
    Into Moses' wholesale shop:
    There they bought a hat and bonnet,
    And a gown with spots upon it,
    A satin sash of Cloxam blue,
    And a pair of slippers too.
        Zikky wikky mikky bee,
        Witchy witchy mitchy kee,
            Sikky tikky wee!


                     VII.

    Then, when so completely dressed,
    Back they flew, and reached their nest.
    Their children cried, "O ma and pa!
    How truly beautiful you are!"
    Said they, "We trust that cold or pain
    We shall never feel again;
    While, perched on tree or house or steeple,
    We now shall look like other people.
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twikky mikky bikky bee,
            Zikky sikky tee!"

               [Illustration]




THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    The Broom and the Shovel, the Poker and Tongs,
      They all took a drive in the Park;
    And they each sang a song, ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
      Before they went back in the dark.
    Mr. Poker he sate quite upright in the coach;
      Mr. Tongs made a clatter and clash;
    Miss Shovel was dressed all in black (with a brooch);
      Mrs. Broom was in blue (with a sash).
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        And they all sang a song.


                     II.

   "O Shovely so lovely!" the Poker he sang,
     "You have perfectly conquered my heart.
    Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong! If you're pleased with my song,
      I will feed you with cold apple-tart.
    When you scrape up the coals with a delicate sound,
      You enrapture my life with delight,
    Your nose is so shiny, your head is so round,
      And your shape is so slender and bright!
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        Ain't you pleased with my song?"


                     III.

   "Alas! Mrs. Broom," sighed the Tongs in his song,
     "Oh! is it because I'm so thin,
    And my legs are so long,--ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!--
      That you don't care about me a pin?
    Ah! fairest of creatures, when sweeping the room,
      Ah! why don't you heed my complaint?
    Must you needs be so cruel, you beautiful Broom,
      Because you are covered with paint?
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        You are certainly wrong."


                     IV.

    Mrs. Broom and Miss Shovel together they sang,
     "What nonsense you're singing to-day!"
    Said the Shovel, "I'll certainly hit you a bang!"
      Said the Broom, "And I'll sweep you away!"
    So the coachman drove homeward as fast as he could,
      Perceiving their anger with pain;
    But they put on the kettle, and little by little
      They all became happy again.
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        There's an end of my song.




THE TABLE AND THE CHAIR.

[Illustration]

                     I.

    Said the Table to the Chair,
    "You can hardly be aware
    How I suffer from the heat
    And from chilblains on my feet.
    If we took a little walk,
    We might have a little talk;
    Pray let us take the air,"
    Said the Table to the Chair.


                     II.

    Said the Chair unto the Table,
    "Now, you _know_ we are not able:
    How foolishly you talk,
    When you know we _cannot_ walk!"
    Said the Table with a sigh,
    "It can do no harm to try.
    I've as many legs as you:
    Why can't we walk on two?"


                     III.

    So they both went slowly down,
    And walked about the town
    With a cheerful bumpy sound
    As they toddled round and round;
    And everybody cried,
    As they hastened to their side,
    "See! the Table and the Chair
    Have come out to take the air!"


                     IV.

    But in going down an alley,
    To a castle in a valley,
    They completely lost their way,
    And wandered all the day;
    Till, to see them safely back,
    They paid a Ducky-quack,
    And a Beetle, and a Mouse,
    Who took them to their house.

              [Illustration]


                     V.

    Then they whispered to each other,
    "O delightful little brother,
    What a lovely walk we've taken!
    Let us dine on beans and bacon."
    So the Ducky and the leetle
    Browny-Mousy and the Beetle
    Dined, and danced upon their heads
    Till they toddled to their beds.

              [Illustration]

       *        *        *        *        *


            A

     [Illustration]

    A was an ant
    Who seldom stood still,
    And who made a nice house
    In the side of a hill.

            a!
     Nice little ant!


            B

     [Illustration]

    B was a book
    With a binding of blue,
    And pictures and stories
    For me and for you.

            b!
     Nice little book!


            C

     [Illustration]

    C was a cat
    Who ran after a rat;
    But his courage did fail
    When she seized on his tail.

            c!
      Crafty old cat!


            D

     [Illustration]

    D was a duck
    With spots on his back,
    Who lived in the water,
    And always said "Quack!"

            d!
      Dear little duck!


            E

     [Illustration]

    E was an elephant,
    Stately and wise:
    He had tusks and a trunk,
    And two queer little eyes.

            e!
    Oh, what funny small eyes!


            F

     [Illustration]


    F was a fish
    Who was caught in a net;
    But he got out again,
    And is quite alive yet.

            f!
      Lively young fish!


            G

     [Illustration]

    G was a goat
    Who was spotted with brown:
    When he did not lie still
    He walked up and down.

            g!
      Good little goat!


            H

     [Illustration]

    H was a hat
    Which was all on one side;
    Its crown was too high,
    And its brim was too wide.

            h!
      Oh, what a hat!


            I

     [Illustration]

    I was some ice
    So white and so nice,
    But which nobody tasted;
    And so it was wasted.

            i!
    All that good ice!


            J

     [Illustration]


    J was a jackdaw
    Who hopped up and down
    In the principal street
    Of a neighboring town.

            j!
     All through the town!


            K

     [Illustration]

    K was a kite
    Which flew out of sight,
    Above houses so high,
    Quite into the sky.

            k
       Fly away, kite!


            L

     [Illustration]

    L was a light
    Which burned all the night,
    And lighted the gloom
    Of a very dark room.

            l!
     Useful nice light!


            M

     [Illustration]

    M was a mill
    Which stood on a hill,
    And turned round and round
    With a loud hummy sound.

            m!
      Useful old mill!


            N

     [Illustration]

    N was a net
    Which was thrown in the sea
    To catch fish for dinner
    For you and for me.

            n!
      Nice little net!


            O

     [Illustration]

    O was an orange
    So yellow and round:
    When it fell off the tree,
    It fell down to the ground.

            o!
    Down to the ground!


            P

     [Illustration]

    P was a pig,
    Who was not very big;
    But his tail was too curly,
    And that made him surly.

            p!
    Cross little pig!


            Q

     [Illustration]

    Q was a quail
    With a very short tail;
    And he fed upon corn
    In the evening and morn.

            q!
    Quaint little quail!


            R

     [Illustration]

    R was a rabbit,
    Who had a bad habit
    Of eating the flowers
    In gardens and bowers.

            r!
     Naughty fat rabbit!


            S

     [Illustration]

    S was the sugar-tongs,
    Nippity-nee,
    To take up the sugar
    To put in our tea.

            s!
       Nippity-nee!


            T

     [Illustration]

    T was a tortoise,
    All yellow and black:
    He walked slowly away,
    And he never came back.

            t!
    Torty never came back!


            U

     [Illustration]

    U was an urn
    All polished and bright,
    And full of hot water
    At noon and at night.

            u!
     Useful old urn!


            V

     [Illustration]

    V was a villa
    Which stood on a hill,
    By the side of a river,
    And close to a mill.

            v!
    Nice little villa!


            W

     [Illustration]

    W was a whale
    With a very long tail,
    Whose movements were frantic
    Across the Atlantic.

            w!
   Monstrous old whale!


            X

     [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who, more than all Turks, is
    Renowned for his fashion
    Of fury and passion.

            x!
    Angry old Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

    Y was a yew,
    Which flourished and grew
    By a quiet abode
    Near the side of a road.

            y!
     Dark little yew!


            Z

     [Illustration]

    Z was some zinc,
    So shiny and bright,
    Which caused you to wink
    In the sun's merry light.

            z!
       Beautiful zinc!




            A

     [Illustration]

            a

    A was once an apple-pie,
        Pidy,
        Widy,
        Tidy,
        Pidy,
      Nice insidy,
      Apple-pie!


            B

     [Illustration]

            b

    B was once a little bear,
        Beary,
        Wary,
        Hairy,
        Beary,
      Taky cary,
      Little bear!


            C

     [Illustration]

            c

    C was once a little cake,
        Caky,
        Baky,
        Maky,
        Caky,
      Taky caky,
      Little cake!


            D

     [Illustration]

            d

    D was once a little doll,
        Dolly,
        Molly,
        Polly,
        Nolly,
      Nursy dolly,
      Little doll!


            E

     [Illustration]

            e

    E was once a little eel,
        Eely,
        Weely,
        Peely,
        Eely,
      Twirly, tweely,
        Little eel!



            F

     [Illustration]

            f

    F was once a little fish,
        Fishy,
        Wishy,
        Squishy,
        Fishy,
      In a dishy,
      Little fish!


            G

     [Illustration]

            g

    G was once a little goose,
        Goosy,
        Moosy,
        Boosey,
        Goosey,
      Waddly-woosy,
      Little goose!


            H

     [Illustration]

            h

    H was once a little hen,
        Henny,
        Chenny,
        Tenny,
        Henny.
      Eggsy-any,
      Little hen?


            I

     [Illustration]

            i

    I was once a bottle of ink
        Inky,
        Dinky,
        Thinky,
        Inky,
      Blacky minky,
      Bottle of ink!


            J

     [Illustration]

            j

    J was once a jar of jam,
        Jammy,
        Mammy,
        Clammy,
        Jammy,
      Sweety, swammy,
        Jar of jam!


            K

     [Illustration]

            k

    K was once a little kite,
        Kity,
        Whity,
        Flighty,
        Kity,
      Out of sighty,
        Little kite!


            L

     [Illustration]

            l

    L was once a little lark,
        Larky,
        Marky,
        Harky,
        Larky,
      In the parky,
      Little lark!


            M

     [Illustration]

            m

    M was once a little mouse,
        Mousy,
        Bousy,
        Sousy,
        Mousy,
      In the housy,
      Little mouse!


            N

     [Illustration]

            n

    N was once a little needle,
        Needly,
        Tweedly,
        Threedly,
        Needly,
      Wisky, wheedly,
      Little needle!


            O

     [Illustration]

            o

    O was once a little owl,
        Owly,
        Prowly,
        Howly,
        Owly,
      Browny fowly,
      Little owl!


            P

     [Illustration]

            p

    P was once a little pump,
        Pumpy,
        Slumpy,
        Flumpy,
        Pumpy,
      Dumpy, thumpy,
        Little pump!


            Q

     [Illustration]

            q

    Q was once a little quail,
        Quaily,
        Faily,
        Daily,
        Quaily,
      Stumpy-taily,
      Little quail!


            R

     [Illustration]

            r

    R was once a little rose,
        Rosy,
        Posy,
        Nosy,
        Rosy,
     Blows-y, grows-y,
       Little rose!


            S

     [Illustration]

            s

    S was once a little shrimp,
        Shrimpy,
        Nimpy,
        Flimpy,
        Shrimpy.
     Jumpy, jimpy,
      Little shrimp!


            T

     [Illustration]

            t

    T was once a little thrush,
        Thrushy,
        Hushy,
        Bushy,
        Thrushy,
      Flitty, flushy,
      Little thrush!


            U

     [Illustration]

            u

    U was once a little urn,
           Urny,
           Burny,
           Turny,
           Urny,
      Bubbly, burny,
        Little urn!


            V

     [Illustration]

            v

    V was once a little vine,
        Viny,
        Winy,
        Twiny,
        Viny,
      Twisty-twiny,
      Little vine!


            W

     [Illustration]

            w

    W was once a whale,
        Whaly,
        Scaly,
        Shaly,
        Whaly,
      Tumbly-taily,
      Mighty whale!


            X

     [Illustration]

            x

    X was once a great king Xerxes,
          Xerxy,
          Perxy,
          Turxy,
          Xerxy,
        Linxy, lurxy,
      Great King Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

            y

    Y was once a little yew,
        Yewdy,
        Fewdy,
        Crudy,
        Yewdy,
    Growdy, grewdy,
      Little yew!


            Z

     [Illustration]

            z

    Z was once a piece of zinc,
        Tinky,
        Winky,
        Blinky,
        Tinky,
      Tinkly minky,
      Piece of zinc!




            A

     [Illustration]

    A was an ape,
    Who stole some white tape,
    And tied up his toes
    In four beautiful bows.

            a!

    Funny old ape!


            B

     [Illustration]

    B was a bat,
    Who slept all the day,
    And fluttered about
    When the sun went away.

            b!

    Brown little bat!


            C

     [Illustration]

    C was a camel:
    You rode on his hump;
    And if you fell off,
    You came down such a bump!


            c!

    What a high camel!


            D

     [Illustration]

    D was a dove,
    Who lived in a wood,
    With such pretty soft wings,
    And so gentle and good!

            d!

    Dear little dove!


            E

     [Illustration]

    E was an eagle,
    Who sat on the rocks,
    And looked down on the fields
    And the-far-away flocks.

            e!

    Beautiful eagle!


            F

     [Illustration]

    F was a fan
    Made of beautiful stuff;
    And when it was used,
    It went puffy-puff-puff!

            f!

    Nice little fan!


            G

     [Illustration]

    G was a gooseberry,
    Perfectly red;
    To be made into jam,
    And eaten with bread.

            g!

    Gooseberry red!


            H

     [Illustration]

    H was a heron,
    Who stood in a stream:
    The length of his neck
    And his legs was extreme.

            h!

    Long-legged heron!


            I

     [Illustration]

    I was an inkstand,
    Which stood on a table,
    With a nice pen to write with
    When we are able.

            i!

    Neat little inkstand!


            J

     [Illustration]

    J was a jug,
    So pretty and white,
    With fresh water in it
    At morning and night.

            j!

    Nice little jug!


            K

     [Illustration]

    K was a kingfisher:
    Quickly he flew,
    So bright and so pretty!--
    Green, purple, and blue.

            k!

    Kingfisher blue!

            L

     [Illustration]

    L was a lily,
    So white and so sweet!
    To see it and smell it
    Was quite a nice treat.

            l!

    Beautiful lily!


            M

     [Illustration]

    M was a man,
    Who walked round and round;
    And he wore a long coat
    That came down to the ground.

            m!

    Funny old man!


            N

     [Illustration]

    N was a nut
    So smooth and so brown!
    And when it was ripe,
    It fell tumble-dum-down.

            n!

    Nice little nut!


            O

     [Illustration]

    O was an oyster,
    Who lived in his shell:
    If you let him alone,
    He felt perfectly well.

            o!

    Open-mouthed oyster!


            P

     [Illustration]

    P was a polly,
    All red, blue, and green,--
    The most beautiful polly
    That ever was seen.

            p!

    Poor little polly!


            Q

     [Illustration]

    Q was a quill
    Made into a pen;
    But I do not know where,
    And I cannot say when.

            q!

    Nice little quill!


            R

     [Illustration]

    R was a rattlesnake,
    Rolled up so tight,
    Those who saw him ran quickly,
    For fear he should bite.

            r!

    Rattlesnake bite!


            S

     [Illustration]

    S was a screw
    To screw down a box;
    And then it was fastened
    Without any locks.

            s!

    Valuable screw!


            T

     [Illustration]

    T was a thimble,
    Of silver so bright!
    When placed on the finger,
    It fitted so tight!

            t!

    Nice little thimble!


            U

     [Illustration]

    U was an upper-coat,
    Woolly and warm,
    To wear over all
    In the snow or the storm.

            u!

    What a nice upper-coat!


            V

     [Illustration]

    V was a veil
    With a border upon it,
    And a ribbon to tie it
    All round a pink bonnet.

            v!

    Pretty green veil!


            W

     [Illustration]

    W was a watch,
    Where, in letters of gold,
    The hour of the day
    You might always behold.

            w!

    Beautiful watch!


            X

     [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who wore on his head
    A mighty large turban,
    Green, yellow, and red.

            x!

    Look at King Xerxes!


            Y

     [Illustration]

    Y was a yak,
    From the land of Thibet:
    Except his white tail,
    He was all black as jet.

            y!

    Look at the yak!


            Z

     [Illustration]

    Z was a zebra,
    All striped white and black;
    And if he were tame,
    You might ride on his back.

            z!

    Pretty striped zebra!

    [Illustration]

    There was a young person of Bantry,
    Who frequently slept in the pantry;
    When disturbed by the mice, she appeased them with rice,
    That judicious young person of Bantry.

    [Illustration]

    There was an Old Man at a Junction,
    Whose feelings were wrung with compunction
    When they said, "The Train's gone!" he exclaimed, "How forlorn!"
    But remained on the rails of the Junction.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Minety,
    Who purchased five hundred and ninety
    Large apples and pears, which he threw unawares
    At the heads of the people of Minety.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Thermopylae,
    Who never did anything properly;
    But they said, "If you choose to boil eggs in your shoes,
    You shall never remain in Thermopylae."

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Deal,
    Who in walking used only his heel;
    When they said, "Tell us why?" he made no reply,
    That mysterious old person of Deal.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man on the Humber,
    Who dined on a cake of Burnt Umber;
    When he said, "It's enough!" they only said, "Stuff!
    You amazing old man on the Humber!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man in a barge,
    Whose nose was exceedingly large;
    But in fishing by night, it supported a light,
    Which helped that old man in a barge.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Dunrose;
    A parrot seized hold of his nose.
    When he grew melancholy, they said, "His name's Polly,"
    Which soothed that old man of Dunrose.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Toulouse
    Who purchased a new pair of shoes;
    When they asked, "Are they pleasant?" he said, "Not at present!"
    That turbid old man of Toulouse.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bree,
    Who frequented the depths of the sea;
    She nurs'd the small fishes, and washed all the dishes,
    And swam back again into Bree.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bromley,
    Whose ways were not cheerful or comely;
    He sate in the dust, eating spiders and crust,
    That unpleasing old person of Bromley.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Shields,
    Who frequented the vallies and fields;
    All the mice and the cats, and the snakes and the rats,
    Followed after that person of Shields.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Dunluce,
    Who went out to sea on a goose:
    When he'd gone out a mile, he observ'd with a smile,
    "It is time to return to Dunluce."

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Dee-side
    Whose hat was exceedingly wide,
    But he said, "Do not fail, if it happen to hail,
    To come under my hat at Dee-side!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person in black,
    A Grasshopper jumped on his back;
    When it chirped in his ear, he was smitten with fear,
    That helpless old person in black.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of the Dargle
    Who purchased six barrels of Gargle;
    For he said, "I'll sit still, and will roll them down hill,
    For the fish in the depths of the Dargle."

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Pinner,
    As thin as a lath, if not thinner;
    They dressed him in white, and roll'd him up tight,
    That elastic old person of Pinner.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of China,
    Whose daughters were Jiska and Dinah,
    Amelia and Fluffy, Olivia and Chuffy,
    And all of them settled in China.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man in a Marsh,
    Whose manners were futile and harsh;
    He sate on a log, and sang songs to a frog,
    That instructive old man in a Marsh.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Brill,
    Who purchased a shirt with a frill;
    But they said, "Don't you wish, you mayn't look like a fish,
    You obsequious old person of Brill?"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Wick,
    Who said, "Tick-a-Tick, Tick-a-Tick;
    Chickabee, Chickabaw." And he said nothing more,
    That laconic old person of Wick.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man at a Station,
    Who made a promiscuous oration;
    But they said, "Take some snuff!--You have talk'd quite enough,
    You afflicting old man at a Station!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Three Bridges,
    Whose mind was distracted by midges,
    He sate on a wheel, eating underdone veal,
    Which relieved that old man of Three Bridges.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Hong Kong,
    Who never did anything wrong;
    He lay on his back, with his head in a sack,
    That innocuous old man of Hong Kong.

    [Illustration]

    There was a young person in green,
    Who seldom was fit to be seen;
    She wore a long shawl, over bonnet and all,
    Which enveloped that person in green.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Fife,
    Who was greatly disgusted with life;
    They sang him a ballad, and fed him on salad,
    Which cured that old person of Fife.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man who screamed out
    Whenever they knocked him about:
    So they took off his boots, and fed him with fruits,
    And continued to knock him about.

    [Illustration]

    There was a young lady in white,
    Who looked out at the depths of the night;
    But the birds of the air, filled her heart with despair,
    And oppressed that young lady in white.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Slough,
    Who danced at the end of a bough;
    But they said, "If you sneeze, you might damage the trees,
    You imprudent old person of Slough."

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Down,
    Whose face was adorned with a frown;
    When he opened the door, for one minute or more,
    He alarmed all the people of Down.

    [Illustration]

    There was a young person in red,
    Who carefully covered her head,
    With a bonnet of leather, and three lines of feather,
    Besides some long ribands of red.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Hove,
    Who frequented the depths of a grove;
    Where he studied his books, with the wrens and the rooks,
    That tranquil old person of Hove.

    [Illustration]

    There was a young person in pink,
    Who called out for something to drink;
    But they said, "O my daughter, there's nothing but water!"
    Which vexed that young person in pink.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old lady of France,
    Who taught little ducklings to dance;
    When she said, "Tick-a-tack!" they only said, "Quack!"
    Which grieved that old lady of France.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Putney,
    Whose food was roast spiders and chutney,
    Which he took with his tea, within sight of the sea,
    That romantic old person of Putney.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Loo,
    Who said, "What on earth shall I do?"
    When they said, "Go away!" she continued to stay,
    That vexatious old person of Loo.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Woking,
    Whose mind was perverse and provoking;
    He sate on a rail, with his head in a pail,
    That illusive old person of Woking.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Dean
    Who dined on one pea, and one bean;
    For he said, "More than that, would make me too fat,"
    That cautious old person of Dean.

    [Illustration]

    There was a young lady in blue,
    Who said, "Is it you? Is it you?"
    When they said, "Yes, it is," she replied only, "Whizz!"
    That ungracious young lady in blue.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old Man in a Garden,
    Who always begged every one's pardon;
    When they asked him, "What for?" he replied, "You're a bore!
    And I trust you'll go out of my garden."

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Pisa,
    Whose daughters did nothing to please her;
    She dressed them in gray, and banged them all day,
    Round the walls of the city of Pisa.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Florence,
    Who held mutton chops in abhorrence;
    He purchased a Bustard, and fried him in Mustard,
    Which choked that old person of Florence.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Sheen,
    Whose expression was calm and serene;
    He sate in the water, and drank bottled porter,
    That placid old person of Sheen.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Ware,
    Who rode on the back of a bear;
    When they ask'd, "Does it trot?" he said, "Certainly not!
    He's a Moppsikon Floppsikon bear!"

    [Illustration]

    There was a young person of Janina,
    Whose uncle was always a fanning her;
    When he fanned off her head, she smiled sweetly, and said,
    "You propitious old person of Janina!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Cashmere,
    Whose movements were scroobious and queer;
    Being slender and tall, he looked over a wall,
    And perceived two fat ducks of Cashmere.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Cassel,
    Whose nose finished off in a tassel;
    But they call'd out, "Oh well! don't it look like a bell!"
    Which perplexed that old person of Cassel.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Pett,
    Who was partly consumed by regret;
    He sate in a cart, and ate cold apple tart,
    Which relieved that old person of Pett.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Spithead,
    Who opened the window, and said,--
    "Fil-jomble, fil-jumble, fil-rumble-come-tumble!"
    That doubtful old man of Spithead.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man on the Border,
    Who lived in the utmost disorder;
    He danced with the cat, and made tea in his hat,
    Which vexed all the folks on the Border.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Dumbree,
    Who taught little owls to drink tea;
    For he said, "To eat mice is not proper or nice,"
    That amiable man of Dumbree.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Filey,
    Of whom his acquaintance spoke highly;
    He danced perfectly well, to the sound of a bell,
    And delighted the people of Filey.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man whose remorse
    Induced him to drink Caper Sauce;
    For they said, "If mixed up with some cold claret-cup,
    It will certainly soothe your remorse!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Ibreem,
    Who suddenly threaten'd to scream;
    But they said, "If you do, we will thump you quite blue,
    You disgusting old man of Ibreem!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Wilts,
    Who constantly walked upon stilts;
    He wreathed them with lilies and daffy-down-dillies,
    That elegant person of Wilts.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Grange,
    Whose manners were scroobious and strange;
    He sailed to St. Blubb in a waterproof tub,
    That aquatic old person of Grange.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Newry,
    Whose manners were tinctured with fury;
    He tore all the rugs, and broke all the jugs,
    Within twenty miles' distance of Newry.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Dumblane,
    Who greatly resembled a crane;
    But they said, "Is it wrong, since your legs are so long,
    To request you won't stay in Dumblane?"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Port Grigor,
    Whose actions were noted for vigour;
    He stood on his head till his waistcoat turned red,
    That eclectic old man of Port Grigor.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of El Hums,
    Who lived upon nothing but crumbs,
    Which he picked off the ground, with the other birds round,
    In the roads and the lanes of El Hums.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of West Dumpet,
    Who possessed a large nose like a trumpet;
    When he blew it aloud, it astonished the crowd,
    And was heard through the whole of West Dumpet.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Sark,
    Who made an unpleasant remark;
    But they said, "Don't you see what a brute you must be,
    You obnoxious old person of Sark!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man whose despair
    Induced him to purchase a hare:
    Whereon one fine day he rode wholly away,
    Which partly assuaged his despair.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Barnes,
    Whose garments were covered with darns;
    But they said, "Without doubt, you will soon wear them out,
    You luminous person of Barnes!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Nice,
    Whose associates were usually Geese.
    They walked out together in all sorts of weather,
    That affable person of Nice!

    [Illustration]

    There was a young lady of Greenwich,
    Whose garments were border'd with Spinach;
    But a large spotty Calf bit her shawl quite in half,
    Which alarmed that young lady of Greenwich.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Cannes,
    Who purchased three fowls and a fan;
    Those she placed on a stool, and to make them feel cool
    She constantly fanned them at Cannes.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Ickley,
    Who could not abide to ride quickly;
    He rode to Karnak on a tortoise's back,
    That moony old person of Ickley.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Hyde,
    Who walked by the shore with his bride,
    Till a Crab who came near fill'd their bosoms with fear,
    And they said, "Would we'd never left Hyde!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person in gray,
    Whose feelings were tinged with dismay;
    She purchased two parrots, and fed them with carrots,
    Which pleased that old person in gray.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Ancona,
    Who found a small dog with no owner,
    Which he took up and down all the streets of the town,
    That anxious old man of Ancona.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Sestri,
    Who sate himself down in the vestry;
    When they said, "You are wrong!" he merely said "Bong!"
    That repulsive old person of Sestri.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Blythe,
    Who cut up his meat with a scythe;
    When they said, "Well! I never!" he cried, "Scythes for ever!"
    That lively old person of Blythe.

    [Illustration]

    There was a young person of Ayr,
    Whose head was remarkably square:
    On the top, in fine weather, she wore a gold feather;
    Which dazzled the people of Ayr.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Rimini,
    Who said, "Gracious! Goodness! O Gimini!"
    When they said, "Please be still!" she ran down a hill,
    And was never more heard of at Rimini.

    [Illustration]

    There is a young lady, whose nose,
    Continually prospers and grows;
    When it grew out of sight, she exclaimed in a fright,
    "Oh! Farewell to the end of my nose!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Ealing,
    Who was wholly devoid of good feeling;
    He drove a small gig, with three Owls and a Pig,
    Which distressed all the people of Ealing.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Thames Ditton,
    Who called out for something to sit on;
    But they brought him a hat, and said, "Sit upon that,
    You abruptious old man of Thames Ditton!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bray,
    Who sang through the whole of the day
    To his ducks and his pigs, whom he fed upon figs,
    That valuable person of Bray.

    [Illustration]

    There was a young person whose history
    Was always considered a mystery;
    She sate in a ditch, although no one knew which,
    And composed a small treatise on history.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bow,
    Whom nobody happened to know;
    So they gave him some soap, and said coldly, "We hope
    You will go back directly to Bow!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Rye,
    Who went up to town on a fly;
    But they said, "If you cough, you are safe to fall off!
    You abstemious old person of Rye!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Crowle,
    Who lived in the nest of an owl;
    When they screamed in the nest, he screamed out with the rest,
    That depressing old person of Crowle.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old Lady of Winchelsea,
    Who said, "If you needle or pin shall see
    On the floor of my room, sweep it up with the broom!"
    That exhaustive old Lady of Winchelsea!

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man in a tree,
    Whose whiskers were lovely to see;
    But the birds of the air pluck'd them perfectly bare,
    To make themselves nests in that tree.

    [Illustration]

    There was a young lady of Corsica,
    Who purchased a little brown saucy-cur;
    Which she fed upon ham, and hot raspberry jam,
    That expensive young lady of Corsica.

    [Illustration]

    There was a young lady of Firle,
    Whose hair was addicted to curl;
    It curled up a tree, and all over the sea,
    That expansive young lady of Firle.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Stroud,
    Who was horribly jammed in a crowd;
    Some she slew with a kick, some she scrunched with a stick,
    That impulsive old person of Stroud.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Boulak,
    Who sate on a Crocodile's back;
    But they said, "Towr'ds the night he may probably bite,
    Which might vex you, old man of Boulak!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Skye,
    Who waltz'd with a Bluebottle fly:
    They buzz'd a sweet tune, to the light of the moon,
    And entranced all the people of Skye.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Blackheath,
    Whose head was adorned with a wreath
    Of lobsters and spice, pickled onions and mice,
    That uncommon old man of Blackheath.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man, who when little
    Fell casually into a kettle;
    But, growing too stout, he could never get out,
    So he passed all his life in that kettle.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Dundalk,
    Who tried to teach fishes to walk;
    When they tumbled down dead, he grew weary, and said,
    "I had better go back to Dundalk!"

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Shoreham,
    Whose habits were marked by decorum;
    He bought an Umbrella, and sate in the cellar,
    Which pleased all the people of Shoreham.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bar,
    Who passed all her life in a jar,
    Which she painted pea-green, to appear more serene,
    That placid old person of Bar.

    [Illustration]

    There was a young person of Kew,
    Whose virtues and vices were few;
    But with blamable haste she devoured some hot paste,
    Which destroyed that young person of Kew.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Jodd,
    Whose ways were perplexing and odd;
    She purchased a whistle, and sate on a thistle,
    And squeaked to the people of Jodd.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Bude,
    Whose deportment was vicious and crude;
    He wore a large ruff of pale straw-colored stuff,
    Which perplexed all the people of Bude.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old person of Brigg,
    Who purchased no end of a wig;
    So that only his nose, and the end of his toes,
    Could be seen when he walked about Brigg.

    [Illustration]

    There was an old man of Messina,
    Whose daughter was named Opsibeena;
    She wore a small wig, and rode out on a pig,
    To the perfect delight of Messina.




TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES.


    [Illustration]

    The Absolutely Abstemious Ass,
    who resided in a Barrel, and only lived on
    Soda Water and Pickled Cucumbers.

    [Illustration]

    The Bountiful Beetle,
    who always carried a Green Umbrella when it didn't rain,
    and left it at home when it did.

    [Illustration]

    The Comfortable Confidential Cow,
    who sate in her Red Morocco Arm Chair and
    toasted her own Bread at the parlour Fire.

    [Illustration]

    The Dolomphious Duck,
    who caught Spotted Frogs for her dinner
    with a Runcible Spoon.

    [Illustration]

    The Enthusiastic Elephant,
    who ferried himself across the water with the
    Kitchen Poker and a New pair of Ear-rings.

    [Illustration]

    The Fizzgiggious Fish,
    who always walked about upon Stilts,
    because he had no legs.

    [Illustration]

    The Good-natured Grey Gull,
    who carried the Old Owl, and his Crimson Carpet-bag,
    across the river, because he could not swim.

    [Illustration]

    The Hasty Higgeldipiggledy Hen,
    who went to market in a Blue Bonnet and Shawl,
    and bought a Fish for her Supper.

    [Illustration]

    The Inventive Indian,
    who caught a Remarkable Rabbit in a
    Stupendous Silver Spoon.

    [Illustration]

    The Judicious Jubilant Jay,
    who did up her Back Hair every morning with a Wreath of Roses,
    Three feathers, and a Gold Pin.

    [Illustration]

    The Kicking Kangaroo,
    who wore a Pale Pink Muslin dress
    with Blue spots.

    [Illustration]

    The Lively Learned Lobster,
    who mended his own Clothes with
    a Needle and Thread.

    [Illustration]

    The Melodious Meritorious Mouse,
    who played a merry minuet on the
    Piano-forte.

    [Illustration]

    The Nutritious Newt,
    who purchased a Round Plum-pudding
    for his grand-daughter.

    [Illustration]

    The Obsequious Ornamental Ostrich,
    who wore Boots to keep his
    feet quite dry.

    [Illustration: PARSNIP PIE]

    The Perpendicular Purple Polly,
    who read the Newspaper and ate Parsnip Pie
    with his Spectacles.

    [Illustration]

    The Queer Querulous Quail,
    who smoked a Pipe of tobacco on the top of
    a Tin Tea-kettle.

    [Illustration]

    The Rural Runcible Raven,
    who wore a White Wig and flew away
    with the Carpet Broom.

    [Illustration]

    The Scroobious Snake,
    who always wore a Hat on his Head, for
    fear he should bite anybody.

    [Illustration]

    The Tumultuous Tom-tommy Tortoise,
    who beat a Drum all day long in the
    middle of the wilderness.

    [Illustration]

    The Umbrageous Umbrella-maker,
    whose Face nobody ever saw, because it was
    always covered by his Umbrella.

    [Illustration]

    The Visibly Vicious Vulture,
    who wrote some Verses to a Veal-cutlet in a
    Volume bound in Vellum.

    [Illustration]

    The Worrying Whizzing Wasp,
    who stood on a Table, and played sweetly on a
    Flute with a Morning Cap.

    [Illustration]

    The Excellent Double-extra XX
    imbibing King Xerxes, who lived a
    long while ago.

    [Illustration]

    The Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
    whose Head was ever so much bigger than his
    Body, and whose Hat was rather small.

    [Illustration]

    The Zigzag Zealous Zebra,
    who carried five Monkeys on his back all
    the way to Jellibolee.





       *        *        *        *        *


LAUGHABLE LYRICS

A Fourth Book of Nonsense Poems, Songs, Botany, Music, etc.

by

EDWARD LEAR

Author of the _Book of Nonsense_, _More Nonsense_,
_Nonsense Songs, Stories_, etc., etc.


With All the Original Illustrations.






[Illustration]




CONTENTS

    LAUGHABLE LYRICS.
        THE DONG WITH A LUMINOUS NOSE
        THE TWO OLD BACHELORS
        THE PELICAN CHORUS
        THE YONGHY-BONGHY-Bò
        THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES
        THE NEW VESTMENTS
        MR. AND MRS. DISCOBBOLOS
        THE QUANGLE WANGLE'S HAT
        THE CUMMERBUND
        THE AKOND OF SWAT

    NONSENSE BOTANY

      " ALPHABET, No. 5
      "       "   No. 6

       *        *        *        *        *




LAUGHABLE LYRICS.


THE DONG WITH A LUMINOUS NOSE.

[Illustration]

    When awful darkness and silence reign
    Over the great Gromboolian plain,
        Through the long, long wintry nights;
    When the angry breakers roar
    As they beat on the rocky shore;
        When Storm-clouds brood on the towering heights
    Of the Hills of the Chankly Bore,--

    Then, through the vast and gloomy dark
    There moves what seems a fiery spark,--
        A lonely spark with silvery rays
        Piercing the coal-black night,--
        A Meteor strange and bright:
    Hither and thither the vision strays,
        A single lurid light.

    Slowly it wanders, pauses, creeps,--
    Anon it sparkles, flashes, and leaps;
    And ever as onward it gleaming goes
    A light on the Bong-tree stems it throws.
    And those who watch at that midnight hour
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as the wild light passes along,--
       "The Dong! the Dong!
      The wandering Dong through the forest goes!
        The Dong! the Dong!
      The Dong with a luminous Nose!"

        Long years ago
      The Dong was happy and gay,
    Till he fell in love with a Jumbly Girl
      Who came to those shores one day.
    For the Jumblies came in a sieve, they did,--
    Landing at eve near the Zemmery Fidd
        Where the Oblong Oysters grow,
      And the rocks are smooth and gray.
    And all the woods and the valleys rang
    With the Chorus they daily and nightly sang,--
        "_Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve._"

    Happily, happily passed those days!
      While the cheerful Jumblies staid;
        They danced in circlets all night long,
        To the plaintive pipe of the lively Dong,
      In moonlight, shine, or shade.
    For day and night he was always there
    By the side of the Jumbly Girl so fair,
    With her sky-blue hands and her sea-green hair;
    Till the morning came of that hateful day
    When the Jumblies sailed in their sieve away,
    And the Dong was left on the cruel shore
    Gazing, gazing for evermore,--
    Ever keeping his weary eyes on
    That pea-green sail on the far horizon,--
    Singing the Jumbly Chorus still
    As he sate all day on the grassy hill,--
        "_Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve_."

    But when the sun was low in the West,
        The Dong arose and said,--
    "What little sense I once possessed
        Has quite gone out of my head!"
    And since that day he wanders still
    By lake and forest, marsh and hill,
    Singing, "O somewhere, in valley or plain,
    Might I find my Jumbly Girl again!
    For ever I'll seek by lake and shore
    Till I find my Jumbly Girl once more!"

        Playing a pipe with silvery squeaks,
        Since then his Jumbly Girl he seeks;
        And because by night he could not see,
        He gathered the bark of the Twangum Tree
          On the flowery plain that grows.
          And he wove him a wondrous Nose,--
        A Nose as strange as a Nose could be!

    Of vast proportions and painted red,
    And tied with cords to the back of his head.
        In a hollow rounded space it ended
        With a luminous Lamp within suspended,
            All fenced about
            With a bandage stout
            To prevent the wind from blowing it out;
        And with holes all round to send the light
        In gleaming rays on the dismal night

    And now each night, and all night long,
    Over those plains still roams the Dong;
    And above the wail of the Chimp and Snipe
    You may hear the squeak of his plaintive pipe,
    While ever he seeks, but seeks in vain,
    To meet with his Jumbly Girl again;
    Lonely and wild, all night he goes,--
    The Dong with a luminous Nose!
    And all who watch at the midnight hour,
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as they trace the Meteor bright,
    Moving along through the dreary night,--
       "This is the hour when forth he goes,
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!
        Yonder, over the plain he goes,--
            He goes!
            He goes,--
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!"




THE TWO OLD BACHELORS.

[Illustration]

Two old Bachelors were living in one house;
One caught a Muffin, the other caught a Mouse.
Said he who caught the Muffin to him who caught the Mouse,--
"This happens just in time! For we've nothing in the house,
Save a tiny slice of lemon and a teaspoonful of honey,
And what to do for dinner--since we haven't any money?
And what can we expect if we haven't any dinner,
But to lose our teeth and eyelashes and keep on growing thinner?"

Said he who caught the Mouse to him who caught the Muffin,--
"We might cook this little Mouse, if we only had some Stuffin'!
If we had but Sage and Onion we could do extremely well;
But how to get that Stuffin' it is difficult to tell!"

Those two old Bachelors ran quickly to the town
And asked for Sage and Onion as they wandered up and down;
They borrowed two large Onions, but no Sage was to be found
In the Shops, or in the Market, or in all the Gardens round.

But some one said, "A hill there is, a little to the north,
And to its purpledicular top a narrow way leads forth;
And there among the rugged rocks abides an ancient Sage,--
An earnest Man, who reads all day a most perplexing page.
Climb up, and seize him by the toes,--all studious as he sits,--
And pull him down, and chop him into endless little bits!
Then mix him with your Onion (cut up likewise into Scraps),--
When your Stuffin' will be ready, and very good--perhaps."

Those two old Bachelors without loss of time
The nearly purpledicular crags at once began to climb;
And at the top, among the rocks, all seated in a nook,
They saw that Sage a-reading of a most enormous book.

"You earnest Sage!" aloud they cried, "your book you've read enough in!
We wish to chop you into bits to mix you into Stuffin'!"

But that old Sage looked calmly up, and with his awful book,
At those two Bachelors' bald heads a certain aim he took;
And over Crag and precipice they rolled promiscuous down,--
At once they rolled, and never stopped in lane or field or town;
And when they reached their house, they found (besides their want
                                                          of Stuffin'),
The Mouse had fled--and, previously, had eaten up the Muffin.

They left their home in silence by the once convivial door;
And from that hour those Bachelors were never heard of more.


[Illustration: Sheet Music--The Pelicans]


[Illustration]


THE PELICAN CHORUS.

    King and Queen of the Pelicans we;
     No other Birds so grand we see!
    None but we have feet like fins!
    With lovely leathery throats and chins!
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican Jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still

    We live on the Nile. The Nile we love.
    By night we sleep on the cliffs above;
    By day we fish, and at eve we stand
    On long bare islands of yellow sand.
    And when the sun sinks slowly down,
    And the great rock walls grow dark and brown,

    Where the purple river rolls fast and dim
    And the Ivory Ibis starlike skim,
    Wing to wing we dance around,
    Stamping our feet with a flumpy sound,
    Opening our mouths as Pelicans ought;
    And this is the song we nightly snort,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Last year came out our Daughter Dell,
    And all the Birds received her well.
    To do her honor a feast we made
    For every bird that can swim or wade,--
    Herons and Gulls, and Cormorants black,
    Cranes, and Flamingoes with scarlet back,
    Plovers and Storks, and Geese in clouds,
    Swans and Dilberry Ducks in crowds:
    Thousands of Birds in wondrous flight!
    They ate and drank and danced all night,
    And echoing back from the rocks you heard
    Multitude-echoes from Bird and Bird,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Yes, they came; and among the rest
    The King of the Cranes all grandly dressed.
    Such a lovely tail! Its feathers float
    Between the ends of his blue dress-coat;
    With pea-green trowsers all so neat,
    And a delicate frill to hide his feet
    (For though no one speaks of it, every one knows
    He has got no webs between his toes).

    As soon as he saw our Daughter Dell,
    In violent love that Crane King fell,--
    On seeing her waddling form so fair,
    With a wreath of shrimps in her short white hair.
    And before the end of the next long day
    Our Dell had given her heart away;
    For the King of the Cranes had won that heart
    With a Crocodile's egg and a large fish-tart.
    She vowed to marry the King of the Cranes,
    Leaving the Nile for stranger plains;
    And away they flew in a gathering crowd
    Of endless birds in a lengthening cloud.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    And far away in the twilight sky
    We heard them singing a lessening cry,--
    Farther and farther, till out of sight,
    And we stood alone in the silent night!
    Often since, in the nights of June,
    We sit on the sand and watch the moon,--

    She has gone to the great Gromboolian Plain,
    And we probably never shall meet again!
    Oft, in the long still nights of June,
    We sit on the rocks and watch the moon,--
    She dwells by the streams of the Chankly Bore.
    And we probably never shall see her more.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

[NOTE.--The Air of this and the following Song by Edward Lear; the
Arrangement for the Piano by Professor Pomè, of San Remo, Italy.]




[Illustration: Sheet Music--The Yonghy Bonghy Bò]



THE COURTSHIP OF THE YONGHY-BONGHY-BÒ.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    On the Coast of Coromandel
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          In the middle of the woods
      Lived the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
    Two old chairs, and half a candle,
    One old jug without a handle,--
          These were all his worldly goods:
          In the middle of the woods,
          These were all the worldly goods
      Of the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Of the Yonghy-Bonghy Bò.


                    II.

    Once, among the Bong-trees walking
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          To a little heap of stones
      Came the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
    There he heard a Lady talking,
    To some milk-white Hens of Dorking,--
        "'Tis the Lady Jingly Jones!
          On that little heap of stones
          Sits the Lady Jingly Jones!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.


                    III.

   "Lady Jingly! Lady Jingly!
         Sitting where the pumpkins blow,
           Will you come and be my wife?"
       Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
   "I am tired of living singly--
    On this coast so wild and shingly,--
          I'm a-weary of my life;
          If you'll come and be my wife,
          Quite serene would be my life!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.


                    IV.

    "On this Coast of Coromandel
         Shrimps and watercresses grow,
           Prawns are plentiful and cheap,"
       Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
   "You shall have my chairs and candle,
    And my jug without a handle!
          Gaze upon the rolling deep
         (Fish is plentiful and cheap);
          As the sea, my love is deep!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.


                    V.

    Lady Jingly answered sadly,
         And her tears began to flow,--
          "Your proposal comes too late,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!
    I would be your wife most gladly!"
    (Here she twirled her fingers madly,)
         "But in England I've a mate!
          Yes! you've asked me far too late,
          For in England I've a mate,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!


                    VI.

   "Mr. Jones (his name is Handel,--
         Handel Jones, Esquire, & Co.)
           Dorking fowls delights to send,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!
    Keep, oh, keep your chairs and candle,
    And your jug without a handle,--
          I can merely be your friend!
          Should my Jones more Dorkings send,
          I will give you three, my friend!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bongy-Bò!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!


                    VII.

   "Though you've such a tiny body,
         And your head so large doth grow,--
           Though your hat may blow away,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!
    Though you're such a Hoddy Doddy,
    Yet I wish that I could modi-
          fy the words I needs must say!
          Will you please to go away?
          That is all I have to say,
      Mr. Yongby-Bonghy-Bò!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!"


                    VIII.

    Down the slippery slopes of Myrtle,
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          To the calm and silent sea
       Fled the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
    There, beyond the Bay of Gurtle,
    Lay a large and lively Turtle.
         "You're the Cove," he said, "for me;
          On your back beyond the sea,
          Turtle, you shall carry me!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.

              [Illustration]


                    IX.

    Through the silent-roaring ocean
        Did the Turtle swiftly go;
          Holding fast upon his shell
      Rode the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
    With a sad primaeval motion
    Towards the sunset isles of Boshen
          Still the Turtle bore him well.
          Holding fast upon his shell,
         "Lady Jingly Jones, farewell!"
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.


                    X.

    From the Coast of Coromandel
        Did that Lady never go;
          On that heap of stones she mourns
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
    On that Coast of Coromandel,
    In his jug without a handle
        Still she weeps, and daily moans;
        On that little heap of stones
        To her Dorking Hens she moans,
          For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
          For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.




THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    The Pobble who has no toes
        Had once as many as we;
    When they said, "Some day you may lose them all;"
        He replied, "Fish fiddle de-dee!"
    And his Aunt Jobiska made him drink
    Lavender water tinged with pink;
    For she said, "The World in general knows
    There's nothing so good for a Pobble's toes!"


                    II.

    The Pobble who has no toes,
        Swam across the Bristol Channel;
    But before he set out he wrapped his nose
        In a piece of scarlet flannel.
    For his Aunt Jobiska said, "No harm
    Can come to his toes if his nose is warm;
    And it's perfectly known that a Pobble's toes
    Are safe--provided he minds his nose."


                    III.

    The Pobble swam fast and well,
        And when boats or ships came near him,
    He tinkledy-binkledy-winkled a bell
        So that all the world could hear him.
    And all the Sailors and Admirals cried,
    When they saw him nearing the further side,--
   "He has gone to fish, for his Aunt Jobiska's
    Runcible Cat with crimson whiskers!"


                    IV.

    But before he touched the shore,--
        The shore of the Bristol Channel,
    A sea-green Porpoise carried away
        His wrapper of scarlet flannel.
    And when he came to observe his feet,
    Formerly garnished with toes so neat,
    His face at once became forlorn
    On perceiving that all his toes were gone!


                    V.

    And nobody ever knew,
        From that dark day to the present,
    Whoso had taken the Pobble's toes,
        In a manner so far from pleasant.
    Whether the shrimps or crawfish gray,
    Or crafty Mermaids stole them away,
    Nobody knew; and nobody knows
    How the Pobble was robbed of his twice five toes!


                    VI.

    The Pobble who has no toes
        Was placed in a friendly Bark,
    And they rowed him back, and carried him up
        To his Aunt Jobiska's Park.
    And she made him a feast, at his earnest wish,
    Of eggs and buttercups fried with fish;
    And she said, "It's a fact the whole world knows,
    That Pobbles are happier without their toes."




THE NEW VESTMENTS.

    There lived an old man in the Kingdom of Tess,
    Who invented a purely original dress;
    And when it was perfectly made and complete,
    He opened the door and walked into the street.

    By way of a hat he'd a loaf of Brown Bread,
    In the middle of which he inserted his head;
    His Shirt was made up of no end of dead Mice,
    The warmth of whose skins was quite fluffy and nice;
    His Drawers were of Rabbit-skins, so were his Shoes;
    His Stockings were skins, but it is not known whose;
    His Waistcoat and Trowsers were made of Pork Chops;
    His Buttons were Jujubes and Chocolate Drops;
    His Coat was all Pancakes, with Jam for a border,
    And a girdle of Biscuits to keep it in order;
    And he wore over all, as a screen from bad weather,
    A Cloak of green Cabbage-leaves stitched all together.

    He had walked a short way, when he heard a great noise,
    Of all sorts of Beasticles, Birdlings, and Boys;
    And from every long street and dark lane in the town
    Beasts, Birdies, and Boys in a tumult rushed down.
    Two Cows and a Calf ate his Cabbage-leaf Cloak;
    Four Apes seized his Girdle, which vanished like smoke;
    Three Kids ate up half of his Pancaky Coat,
    And the tails were devour'd by an ancient He Goat;
    An army of Dogs in a twinkling tore _up_ his
    Pork Waistcoat and Trowsers to give to their Puppies;
    And while they were growling, and mumbling the Chops,
    Ten Boys prigged the Jujubes and Chocolate Drops.
    He tried to run back to his house, but in vain,
    For scores of fat Pigs came again and again:
    They rushed out of stables and hovels and doors;
    They tore off his stockings, his shoes, and his drawers;
    And now from the housetops with screechings descend
    Striped, spotted, white, black, and gray Cats without end:
    They jumped on his shoulders and knocked off his hat,
    When Crows, Ducks, and Hens made a mincemeat of that;
    They speedily flew at his sleeves in a trice,
    And utterly tore up his Shirt of dead Mice;
    They swallowed the last of his Shirt with a squall,--
    Whereon he ran home with no clothes on at all.

    And he said to himself, as he bolted the door,
   "I will not wear a similar dress any more,
    Any more, any more, any more, never more!"




MR. AND MRS. DISCOBBOLOS.

                    I.

    Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos
        Climbed to the top of a wall.
      And they sate to watch the sunset sky,
      And to hear the Nupiter Piffkin cry,
        And the Biscuit Buffalo call.
    They took up a roll and some Camomile tea,
    And both were as happy as happy could be,
            Till Mrs. Discobbolos said,--
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            It has just come into my head,
      Suppose we should happen to fall!!!!!
                        Darling Mr. Discobbolos!


                    II.

   "Suppose we should fall down flumpetty,
        Just like pieces of stone,
      On to the thorns, or into the moat,
      What would become of your new green coat?
        And might you not break a bone?
    It never occurred to me before,
    That perhaps we shall never go down any more!"
            And Mrs. Discobbolos said,
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            What put it into your head
      To climb up this wall, my own
                        Darling Mr. Discobbolos?"


                    III.

    Mr. Discobbolos answered,
       "At first it gave me pain,
      And I felt my ears turn perfectly pink
      When your exclamation made me think
        We might never get down again!
    But now I believe it is wiser far
    To remain for ever just where we are."
            And Mr. Discobbolos said,
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            It has just come into my head
      We shall never go down again,
                        Dearest Mrs. Discobbolos!"


                    IV.

    So Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos
        Stood up and began to sing,--
     "Far away from hurry and strife
      Here we will pass the rest of life,
        Ding a dong, ding dong, ding!
    We want no knives nor forks nor chairs,
    No tables nor carpets nor household cares;
            From worry of life we've fled;
            Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            There is no more trouble ahead,
      Sorrow or any such thing,
                        For Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos!"




THE QUANGLE WANGLE'S HAT.

[Illustration]

                    I.

    On the top of the Crumpetty Tree
        The Quangle Wangle sat,
    But his face you could not see,
        On account of his Beaver Hat.
    For his Hat was a hundred and two feet wide,
    With ribbons and bibbons on every side,
    And bells, and buttons, and loops, and lace,
    So that nobody ever could see the face
            Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.


                    II.

    The Quangle Wangle said
        To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
    "Jam, and jelly, and bread
        Are the best of food for me!
    But the longer I live on this Crumpetty Tree
    The plainer than ever it seems to me
    That very few people come this way
    And that life on the whole is far from gay!"
            Said the Quangle Wangle Quee.


                    III.

    But there came to the Crumpetty Tree
        Mr. and Mrs. Canary;
    And they said, "Did ever you see
        Any spot so charmingly airy?
    May we build a nest on your lovely Hat?
    Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
    O please let us come and build a nest
    Of whatever material suits you best,
            Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"


                    IV.

    And besides, to the Crumpetty Tree
        Came the Stork, the Duck, and the Owl;
    The Snail and the Bumble-Bee,
        The Frog and the Fimble Fowl
    (The Fimble Fowl, with a Corkscrew leg);
    And all of them said, "We humbly beg
    We may build our homes on your lovely Hat,--
    Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
       Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"


                    V.

    And the Golden Grouse came there,
        And the Pobble who has no toes,
    And the small Olympian bear,
        And the Dong with a luminous nose.
    And the Blue Baboon who played the flute,
    And the Orient Calf from the Land of Tute,
    And the Attery Squash, and the Bisky Bat,--
    All came and built on the lovely Hat
      Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

                    VI.

    And the Quangle Wangle said
        To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
    "When all these creatures move
        What a wonderful noise there'll be!"
    And at night by the light of the Mulberry moon
    They danced to the Flute of the Blue Baboon,
    On the broad green leaves of the Crumpetty Tree,
    And all were as happy as happy could be,
      With the Quangle Wangle Quee.




THE CUMMERBUND.
An Indian Poem.

                    I.

She sate upon her Dobie,
    To watch the Evening Star,
And all the Punkahs, as they passed,
    Cried, "My! how fair you are!"
Around her bower, with quivering leaves,
    The tall Kamsamahs grew,
And Kitmutgars in wild festoons
    Hung down from Tchokis blue.


                    II.

Below her home the river rolled
    With soft meloobious sound,
Where golden-finned Chuprassies swam,
    In myriads circling round.
Above, on tallest trees remote
    Green Ayahs perched alone,
And all night long the Mussak moan'd
    Its melancholy tone.


                    III.

And where the purple Nullahs threw
    Their branches far and wide,
And silvery Goreewallahs flew
    In silence, side by side,
The little Bheesties' twittering cry
    Rose on the flagrant air,
And oft the angry Jampan howled
    Deep in his hateful lair.


                    IV.

She sate upon her Dobie,
    She heard the Nimmak hum,
When all at once a cry arose,
    "The Cummerbund is come!"
In vain she fled: with open jaws
    The angry monster followed,
And so (before assistance came)
    That Lady Fair was swollowed.


                    V.

They sought in vain for even a bone
    Respectfully to bury;
They said, "Hers was a dreadful fate!"
    (And Echo answered, "Very.")
They nailed her Dobie to the wall,
    Where last her form was seen,
And underneath they wrote these words,
    In yellow, blue, and green:
"Beware, ye Fair! Ye Fair, beware!
    Nor sit out late at night,
Lest horrid Cummerbunds should come,
    And swollow you outright."


NOTE.--First published in _Times of India_, Bombay, July, 1874.




THE AKOND OF SWAT.


    Who, or why, or which, or _what_, Is the Akond of SWAT?
    Is he tall or short, or dark or fair?
    Does he sit on a stool or a sofa or chair,             or SQUAT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Is he wise or foolish, young or old?
    Does he drink his soup and his coffee cold,             or HOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he sing or whistle, jabber or talk,
    And when riding abroad does he gallop or walk,          or TROT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he wear a turban, a fez, or a hat?
    Does he sleep on a mattress, a bed, or a mat,          or a COT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    When he writes a copy in round-hand size,
    Does he cross his T's and finish his I's              with a DOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Can he write a letter concisely clear
    Without a speck or a smudge or smear                    or BLOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Do his people like him extremely well?
    Or do they, whenever they can, rebel,                   or PLOT,
                                                    At the Akond of Swat?

    If he catches them then, either old or young,
    Does he have them chopped in pieces or hung,            or _shot_,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Do his people prig in the lanes or park?
    Or even at times, when days are dark,                   GAROTTE?
                                                     O the Akond of Swat!

    Does he study the wants of his own dominion?
    Or doesn't he care for public opinion                    a JOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    To amuse his mind do his people show him
    Pictures, or any one's last new poem,                    or WHAT,
                                                   For the Akond of Swat?

    At night if he suddenly screams and wakes,
    Do they bring him only a few small cakes,               or a LOT,
                                                   For the Akond of Swat?

    Does he live on turnips, tea, or tripe?
    Does he like his shawl to be marked with a stripe,      or a DOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like to lie on his back in a boat
    Like the lady who lived in that isle remote,            SHALLOTT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Is he quiet, or always making a fuss?
    Is his steward a Swiss or a Swede or a Russ,           or a SCOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like to sit by the calm blue wave?
    Or to sleep and snore in a dark green cave,            or a GROTT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he drink small beer from a silver jug?
    Or a bowl? or a glass? or a cup? or a mug?              or a POT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he beat his wife with a gold-topped pipe,
    When she lets the gooseberries grow too ripe,            or ROT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he wear a white tie when he dines with friends,
    And tie it neat in a bow with ends,                    or a KNOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like new cream, and hate mince-pies?
    When he looks at the sun does he wink his eyes,          or NOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he teach his subjects to roast and bake?
    Does he sail about on an inland lake,                  in a YACHT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Some one, or nobody, knows I wot
    Who or which or why or what
                                                    Is the Akond of Swat!


NOTE.--For the existence of this potentate see Indian newspapers, _passim_.
The proper way to read the verses is to make an immense emphasis on the
monosyllabic rhymes, which indeed ought to be shouted out by a chorus.

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE BOTANY.


[Illustration: Armchairia Comfortabilis.]

[Illustration: Bassia Palealensis.]

[Illustration: Bubblia Blowpipia.]

[Illustration: Bluebottlia Buzztilentia.]

[Illustration: Crabbia Horrida.]

[Illustration: Smalltoothcombia Domestica.]

[Illustration: Knutmigrata Simplice.]

[Illustration: Tureenia Ladlecum.]

[Illustration: Puffia Leatherbellowsa.]

[Illustration: Queeriflora Babyöides.]

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE ALPHABETS.


                     A

               [Illustration]

    A was an Area Arch
        Where washerwomen sat;
    They made a lot of lovely starch
        To starch Papa's Cravat.


                     B

               [Illustration]

    B was a Bottle blue,
        Which was not very small;
    Papa he filled it full of beer,
        And then he drank it all.


                     C

               [Illustration]

    C was Papa's gray Cat,
        Who caught a squeaky Mouse;
    She pulled him by his twirly tail
        All about the house.


                     D

               [Illustration]

    D was Papa's white Duck,
        Who had a curly tail;
    One day it ate a great fat frog,
        Besides a leetle snail.


                     E

               [Illustration]

    E was a little Egg,
        Upon the breakfast table;
    Papa came in and ate it up
        As fast as he was able.


                     F

               [Illustration]

    F was a little Fish.
        Cook in the river took it
    Papa said, "Cook! Cook! bring a dish!
        And, Cook! be quick and cook it!"


                     G

               [Illustration]

    G was Papa's new Gun;
        He put it in a box;
    And then he went and bought a bun,
        And walked about the Docks.


                     H

               [Illustration]

    H was Papa's new Hat;
        He wore it on his head;
    Outside it was completely black,
        But inside it was red.


                     I

               [Illustration]

    I was an Inkstand new,
        Papa he likes to use it;
    He keeps it in his pocket now,
        For fear that he should lose it.


                     J

               [Illustration]

    J was some Apple Jam,
        Of which Papa ate part;
    But all the rest he took away
        And stuffed into a tart.


                     K

               [Illustration]

    K was a great new Kite;
        Papa he saw it fly
    Above a thousand chimney pots,
        And all about the sky.


                     L

               [Illustration]

    L was a fine new Lamp;
        But when the wick was lit,
    Papa he said, "This Light ain't good!
        I cannot read a bit!"


                     M

               [Illustration]

    M was a dish of mince;
        It looked so good to eat!
    Papa, he quickly ate it up,
        And said, "This is a treat!"


                     N

               [Illustration]

    N was a Nut that grew
        High up upon a tree;
    Papa, who could not reach it, said,
        "That's _much_ too high for me!"


                     O

               [Illustration]

    O was an Owl who flew
        All in the dark away,
    Papa said, "What an owl you are!
        Why don't you fly by day?"

                     P

               [Illustration]

    P was a little Pig,
        Went out to take a walk;
    Papa he said, "If Piggy dead,
        He'd all turn into Pork!"


                     Q

               [Illustration]

    Q was a Quince that hung
        Upon a garden tree;
    Papa he brought it with him home,
        And ate it with his tea.


                     R

               [Illustration]

    R was a Railway Rug
        Extremely large and warm;
    Papa he wrapped it round his head,
        In a most dreadful storm.


                     S

               [Illustration]

    S was Papa's new Stick,
        Papa's new thumping Stick,
    To thump extremely wicked boys,
        Because it was so thick.


                     T

               [Illustration]

    T was a tumbler full
        Of Punch all hot and good;
    Papa he drank it up, when in
        The middle of a wood.


                     U

               [Illustration]

    U was a silver urn,
        Full of hot scalding water;
    Papa said, "If that Urn were mine,
        I'd give it to my daughter!"


                     V

               [Illustration]

    V was a Villain; once
        He stole a piece of beef.
    Papa he said, "Oh, dreadful man!
        That Villain is a Thief!"


                     W

               [Illustration]

    W was a Watch of Gold:
        It told the time of day,
    So that Papa knew when to come,
        And when to go away.


                     X

               [Illustration]

    X was King Xerxes, whom
        Papa much wished to know;
    But this he could not do, because
        Xerxes died long ago.


                     Y

               [Illustration]

    Y was a Youth, who kicked
        And screamed and cried like mad;
    Papa he said, "Your conduct is
        Abominably bad!"


                     Z

               [Illustration]

    Z was a Zebra striped
        And streaked with lines of black;
    Papa said once, he thought he'd like
        A ride upon his back.


﻿

FOREWORD

When God made the world
He planted the flowers and
the grass and the trees to
make things beautiful to
look upon; He swung the sun and
the moon and the stars in the sky
to make things bright; He put the
birds in the trees to fill the air with
music, and when He made the
animals we believe that he intended
them to be the friends of man.

Why, isn't the dog the best playmate
that a boy can have? Did
any one ever hear of Towser or Gyp
being false friends? And the soft,
dainty, cunning bit of a fluffy ball
of a kitten who comes rubbing its
downy sides against the tiny girl's
skirts begging for a return caress,
is there a play-fellow more lovable?
And the squirrel who comes begging
at the window for nuts; the bunny
rabbit who snuggles its delicate nose,
trustingly, under the little boy's
chin; the horse who has been man's
friend in times of trouble and of
peace, bearing his burdens or scampering
with him over the fields and
roads in play; the cow who has sent
her good milk to the babies of all
time; the sheep and the goats who
have given of their wool to keep us
warm,--we love them all dearly.

In this volume we have tried to
make friends and playmates of all
of the animals. You have loved the
"Flower Children" and the "Bird
Children" whom the publisher already
has made your playmates.
We feel that you are going to be
just as happy to know the "Animal
Children." Therefore we add to
"The Little Cousins of the Field
and Garden" and "The Little Playmates
of the Flower Children," this
volume--"The Friends of the Forest
and the Plain."

EDITH BROWN KIRKWOOD
M.T. Ross




ANIMAL CHILDREN

Sometimes I am so sorry that my papa is a king,
It's really most annoying and hurts like everything
To have the little girls and boys all want to run away,
For if I am a Lion prince, I'm a baby, anyway!

Some jungle boys, by mischief made quite bold,
Once took the baby Tiger, so we're told,
And in broad stripes they smeared his coat so fine,
And 'round his neck they hung a "Fresh Paint" sign.

This monkey thought the Leopard's spots
Were pasted on for polka-dots,
He asked her how much it would cost
New ones to buy if those were lost.

In her red and white gown Miss Weasel's so pert
We are very afraid she's a gay little flirt;
She is fearful of no one--beast, reptile or man,
Just winks and cries gaily: "Catch me, if you can."

This dapper young chappy is Dude Ocelot,
With coat trimmed in many a dash and a spot;
He's graceful and elegant, sly, too, as well,
Just what he'll do next no one ever can tell.

The chetah is a great big cat
But very quick, for all of that,
She's cunning but she's gentle, too,
And if you're good she's good to you.

The little Bobcat and Canadian Lynx
Just must be related (so everyone thinks).
Except for their ears they're alike as two pins,
And look every whit as if they were twins.

A dainty, fastidious man is Lord Otter
Who can live just as well on land as in water,
He'll eat but the flakiest part of a fish,
And this he considers his favorite dish.

"It really is a bother to be sought by everyone"
The vain young Ermine boasted. "Why, it keeps me on the run
To get away from kings and queens and peers and ladies great--
It truly gets me all fussed up and in a dreadful state."

Young ferret, detective, said: "I'll show you where
To track the bold rabbit right into his lair."
Then he never saw bunny right under his eyes,
But went swaggering off looking wondrously wise.

"Now, Johnnie, my child," said wise Mamma Sable,
"When you see a trap run as fast as you're able,
Or else, ere you know it, your skin will be gone
As a beautiful fur for some lady to don."

Mother opossum says she'd like to ask
Just why other mothers should find it a task
To care for one baby. Why, here she has four,
And there's plenty of room on her tail for some more!

Mr. and Mrs. Mongoose are popular as can be,
The reason being very plain, as you will all agree,
They are cunning and affectionate and clean and very nice,
They kill all snakes and insects and naughty rats and mice.

It must be very easy for the busy Beaver mother
To feed the Beaver sister and her little Beaver brother,
For when they beg: "We're hungry, give us something to eat, please!"
She sends them off to nibble at the bark of the big trees.

The puma is a bandit who'll not meet you face to face
But waits to spring upon you from some well-hidden place.
He'll strike you when your back is turned, but away he's sure to fly
If you should turn to look him right squarely in the eye.

Lemur stays in bed all day
And waits until the night to play;
That's why his soft feet make no sound
And why his eyes are big and round.

The bowery boy of the woods is young Mink,
His coat is so lovely one never would think
That'd he do naughty things, but we've often been told
He is tricky and wicked and saucy and bold.

"I'm not so very big around and not great as to length,
But one thing Peccaries have learned--in numbers there is strength.
Now, if you do not bother me I will not bother you,
But all my friends and family will help me if you do."

who is this boy in clothes so neat?
Young Spring-bok, Africa's athlete.
He lives up in the mountains tall,
And as a jumper beats them all.

The Long-Eared Bat and the Flying Fox and the Flying Squirrel, too,
Decided to give an aero-meet just to show what they could do.
So they formed a club and went around and invited everyone,
Then up they flew and did their stunts, and had a lot of fun.

She is dainty as snowdrops that fall from the skies,
Is this dear little Kitten with bright, shiny eyes
And velvety ears and pretty pink nose
And lovely white suit of soft, furry clothes.

Baby raccoon takes all his food and goes straight to the pool,
He eats not one small bite of it until it's wet and cool.
Now, although you may think this strange and stop to wonder why,
He, no doubt, thinks it just as queer for you to like yours dry.

The greatest of travelers that one can meet
Is the little Deer-mouse with the pretty white feet;
North, south, east or west she will go at her will,
And never, no never, is known to keep still.

The baby zebra ne'er should roam
So very far away from home,
Lest someone, thinking her striped gown
Was candy-stick, might eat her down.

"I'm stopping for a moment just to say 'How-do-you-do?'
I've just been decorated with this ribbon of deep blue
Because of all the gracefulness with which I trot and prance--
No wonder that you give Sir Horse your most admiring glance!"

This tale is not so very new,
And, no doubt, has been told to you,
But Donkey went to school to play,
And now he sits dressed up this way.

Here is the only baby who never makes a noise
(Which must be very puzzling to little girls and boys).
Yet the Giraffe is happy 'though he cannot shout or sing,
For with that great long neck of his he can reach anything.

The tapir feeds on leaves and fruit
He's very, very hard to suit,
For boys who don't like bread and meat
Have to find other things to eat.

He has climbed to the top of a rocky throne
To look down on a land once so proudly his own,
His people are scattered, he has no place to go,
He is weary and sad, poor King Buffalo.

"Lemonade, lemonade," the bold monkey cried,
"It's only five cents, and it's cooling beside."
Miss Camel just sniffed and tossed high her head,--
"I drink only every nine days, sir," she said.

Milk or meat or leather for shoes,--
Almost anything that we choose,--
We'll find the good Cow gives with joy
To every nice little girl and boy.

I wonder where the names come from (I'm sure that you do, too).
For instance, there's the animal that has been called the Gnu.
His race is just as strange, too, for no one seems to know
Just what he is--an antelope, horse, bull or buffalo.

Big moose came boldly from behind the tall trees,
And said in loud voice: "Who called, if you please?
I'm ready to meet any one who says 'Fight,'
But we'll come in the open and do the thing right."

I am not sure I'd care to meet
This Big Horn Goat upon the street.
Not when his eyes and smile and air
Just seem to shout: "Come, if you dare!'

Brave soldier ibex stalks before the mountain fortress high,
And watches eagerly to note a stranger passing by.
"Who's there?" he calls, and to his friends he whistles the alarm,
And off they go to mountain tops where they are safe from harm.

The chamois lives in the mountains high,
He's ever and ever and ever so spry;
He leaps and he plays with never a fall--
I'm sure that you never could do that at all.

Billy Goat and Nanny Goat went out one day to tea.
They promised Mother Goat they'd be good as they could be,
But on the way they passed some goats who cried: "Oh, see the dude!"
And then they had to go back home for Billy got real rude.

Her coat is soft as velvet, of a lovely yellow-brown,
With a bit of fawn for trimming and a lining white as down.
Her eyes are large and kindly, she is gentle, too, as well,
You would love a little playmate as sweet as Miss Gazelle.

A sturdy young American is Rocky Mountain Goat
With big, strong horns upon his head, and shaggy, furry coat;
He loves to scramble over rocks or leap a mountain brook,
And should you chase him he will fly into his hidden nook.

"We reindeer come straight from your own Santa Claus,
In our gallop of joy we never will pause;
We eat from the mountain-tops, drink from the dells,
And use for our skipping-ropes merry sleigh-bells."

A large and handsome personage is the Most Noble Yak,
His mantle is a fringe of hair that drapes his sides and back;
He's very, very grand, indeed, when he stands up, you see--
In fact, he's just as noble as a noble ought to be.

When young Mrs. Kangaroo goes for a hop,
To call or to market or, perhaps, out to shop,
She has no nice carriage where baby can ride,
So he creeps in a pocket that hangs at her side.

He does not care when the sleet comes down, or the chilly wind blows strong,
For he wears a hat that is made of horn and a fur coat, warm and long.
He never gets frostbitten toes 'though in snow and ice he plays;
Now being a Muskox can't be bad in the long, cold winter days!

"The very best I have, sir, fine and a whole yard wide,
It wears, and has no bother of a right and wrong side;
I'm sure she'd like a dress of it--it will not spot or pull."
Then Miss Alpaca added: "I know--it's my own wool."

This dear little Sheep has lost Bo-Peep,
She wandered away as he lay asleep,
He has found her bonnet and shepherd's crook,
But for little Bo-Peep in vain does he look.

Young Miss Rhinoceros gave a beach party;
She greeted her friends with a welcome most hearty.
They laughed and they joked and they swam in the sea,
And the party was gay, as a party should be.

She comes from Spain, this proud, proud Dame,
Mistress Merino is her name.
Her wool weaves into dress goods rare,
Her skin makes gloves the ladies wear.

Merry guinea pigs one day
Went out in the fields to play.
Daisy smiled and wished that they
Would never, never go away.

Here is a Sister Piggy and a Brother Piggy, too,
The story they are telling here would not apply to you,
For selfish little sisters who make their brothers cry
Do not belong in houses but with piggies in the sty.

Now here's a little lady who seems a wee bit shy,
Or is it that a teardrop is trembling in her eye?
Well, I am sure that you or I would make an awful fuss
If we should have to have her name--"Miss Hippopotamus."

In animal land, as everywhere, there lives a Mr. Boar
Who never is contented unless he holds the floor;
His fellows all may frown at him but he cannot refrain
From pushing into everything--he's so selfish and so vain.

Mother and father and little Miss Bear
Went out for a walk and a bit of fresh air,
Not through the dark woods (the old tale to repeat)
But in their best clothes, right down the front street.

When little Miss Polar Bear goes out to skate,
She never is bothered by having to wait
Until mother wraps her all snugly in fur,
For those are the clothes that she carries with her!

Just look about and see if you
Can find a friend who's quite as true
As this old Doggie that you see
A-smiling here at you and me.

I'm just a little Puppy and good as good can be,
And why they call me naughty, I'm sure I cannot see,
I've only carried off one shoe and torn the baby's hat
And chased the ducks and spilled the milk--there's nothing bad in that!

The mandrill looks so very queer
I'm glad he lives way off from here;
He's purple, blue, red, black and brown,
I'm sure he is the jungle clown.

The baby gorilla, of the family called Ape,
Is very like you in size and in shape,
But he lives in the jungle with black hair for clothes
And he gets very naughty the older he grows.

This cute little brother and sister you see
Seated cosily high on the limb of a tree
Are the Marmoset twins, whose appealing round eyes
Look from flower-like faces in wond'ring surprise.

"I've climbed up here to smile at you and, oh, what do you think?
I've scattered master's papers and upset all of his ink,
But then if little Monkeys always were so very good
They'd not be little monkeys who just can't act as they should."

He is so very lazy that he is even loath
To walk upon his own feet--this funny boy named Sloth.
He swings upon the branches from morning until night,
And eats the leaves about him with laziest delight.

He works on tunnels night and day,
This Marmot boy from far away.
When winter comes then in he creeps,
And there until the spring he sleeps.

The woodchuck resides in a hole in the ground,
He is surly and cross, and he never is found
Out in the bright sunlight unless it's to see
If he can't make more winter for you and for me.

This naughty boy just eats and eats until he is a sight,
He eats until he cannot hold another tiny bite.
Of course, he's just an animal--they call him Wolverine--
But does he make you think of boys that you have ever seen?

Old Mr. Walrus climbs out of the deep
For a breath of air and an hour of sleep.
You will note that he isn't much on looks
But his skin we make into pocket-books.

He sits on the top of a gay wooden stand,
He stands on his head or he shakes your hand,
He dances a jig or he trumps a chant--
This jolly old circus Elephant.

Naughty, naughty Squirrel baby, just as mother has you dressed
In your ribbons and your laces and your go-to-meeting best,
Then to run and grab an apple and get yourself all mussed!
Are you not afraid that mother will be very, very fussed?

To market, to market, with baskets of eggs,
Jack Rabbit goes hurrying on his long legs;
He'll buy him some colors--red, green, yellow, blue,
And when Easter comes 'round you know what he'll do.

Chipmunk is a jolly lad,
Always friendly--never sad,
Shares with friends his wheat grains yellow,
He's a genuine good fellow.

The coney lives in Palestine
But he is very seldom seen.
You see he is so small and shy
He hides when folks are passing by.

They call this boy the Coati,
His name is strange, and so is he.
He laps to drink, digs with his snout.
On ground or trees he runs about.

The cute little dogs that live on the prairie
Were having a party and making quite merry,
When Big Dog, on watch, heard a noise and called "Hush!"
And into their holes went the guests in a rush!

What do you suppose is in Gray Wolf's pack
He carries so stealthily over his back?
Some chickens, a lamb and an old mother hen
He has stolen to hide away in his den.

His manners are so charming and his eyes so very bright,
I do believe that we might call young Fox a gallant knight;
But then when he is cunning and just a little pert,
I'm not so sure but we should call this same young fox a flirt.

We just want to ask if you ever have seen a
Much dirtier boy than this little Hyena?
He has played in the street at making mud pies
Till nothing is clean save the whites of his eyes.

Beau coyote sings a nightly tune
To his lady fair in the big, round moon.
She smiles and throws moonbeams to him
And he serenades till her light is dim.

Tommie and Tillie Badger went out in the field to play.
Said Tommie: "Here, I'll teach you--put down your head this way,
Then toss your heels into the air and give a little twirl--
You can't help turning somersaults although you are a girl."

Miss Leopard Spermophilus, with her high-sounding name,
Says just to be called "Gopher" is really a shame,
And she's right here to tell you--if this knowledge you should lack--
She's the only one who wears the stars and stripes upon her back.

Doggy barked and said: "What fun
To make that Porcupine girl run;
Girls for boys to tease were meant."--
But girls with pins are different.

Sir Knight Armadillo, from tail tip to nose
In armor that's sure to bring terror to foes,
Goes forth with his weapons to his battle ground,
And looks like a pineapple walking around.

Away in Australia the Echidna stays.
He is noted because of his strange little ways;
His claws are so sharp that in manner quite tragic,
When frightened he sinks in the ground as by magic.

Miss Ant Eater's mouth is so dreadfully small
It scarce seems it could be a real mouth at all,
And her long, furry tail is her blanket at night,
It covers and tucks her in all snug and tight.

This queer little Mole has a star for a nose
Just the shade of the pink in a dew-wet rose.
He lives down in the ground where 'tis always like night,
So perhaps his star nose is to twinkle for light.

Here we have Mr. Duckbill of no little fame;
His mouth, you will see, is what gives him his name.
He can walk, swim or burrow and (so we have heard)
His wife, Mrs. Duckbill, lays eggs like a bird.

Such a dainty little person in her coat of pale, clear gray,
Is this maiden, Miss Chinchilla, and the hunter-folks all say
She is so clean she's exquisite and never dreams of harm
When they go to take her silken fur which helps to keep her warm.

The circus fat lady is big Mrs. Whale
With her very large head and her very long tail,
And her ears and her eyes almost covered from sight
In the folds of thick skin that wraps her up tight.



UP, LITTLE ONES!


    A robin redbreast, fluting there
      Upon the apple-bough,
    Is telling all the world how fair
      Are apple-blossoms now;
    The honey-dew its sweetness spills
      From cuckoo-cups, and all
    The crocuses and daffodils
      Are drest for festival!

    Such pretty things are to be seen,
      Such pleasant things to do,
    The April earth it is so green,
      The April sky so blue,
    The path from dawn to even-song
      So joyous is to-day,
    Up, little ones! and dance along
      The lilac-scented way!




DANDELIONS


    Hey-a-day-a-day, my dear! Dandelion time!
    Come, and let us make for them a pretty little rhyme!

    See the meadows twinkling now, beautiful and bright
    As the sky when through the blue shine the stars at night!

    Once upon a time, folks say, mighty kings of old
    Met upon a splendid field called "The Cloth of Gold."

    But, we wonder, could it be there was ever seen
    Brighter gold than glitters now in our meadows green?

    Dandelions, dandelions, shining through the dew,
    Let the kings have Cloth of Gold, but let _us_ have _you_!




OUR PUPPIES


    Little ears as soft as silk,
    Little teeth as white as milk,
    Little noses cool and pink,
    Little eyes that blink and blink,
    Little bodies round and fat,
    Little hearts that pit-a-pat,
    Surely prettier puppies never
    Were before nor can be ever!




THE LOST BALLOON


    O dear! my purple toy balloon
    Has flown away! and very soon
    It will be high up as the moon!

    And don't you think the man up there
    Will wonder what it is, and stare?
    Perhaps hell say, "_Well, I declare!_"

    Or, maybe if it chance there are
    Some little boys in yonder star,
    And if it floats away so far,

    Perhaps they'll jump up very high
    And catch the cord as it goes by!
    At any rate I hope they'll try!




THE CIRCUS PROCESSION


    _Oh, hurry! hurry!_ here they come,
    The band in front with the big bass drum
    And blaring bugles,--there they are,
    On golden thrones in a golden car,
    Tooting and fluting, oh, how grand!
                Hi diddle, diddle!
                The fife and the fiddle!
    _Hurrah, hurrah_ for the circus band!

    And the red-plumed horses, oh, see them prance
    And daintily lift their hoofs and dance,
    While beautiful ladies with golden curls
    Are jingling their bridles of gold and pearls,
                And close behind
                Come every kind
    Of animal cages great and small,
    O how I wonder what's in them all!

    Here's one that's open and glaring there
    Is the shaggiest snow-white polar bear!
    _Woof!_ but I wonder what we'd do
    If his bars broke loose right now, don't you?
                And O dear me!
                Just look and see
    That pink-cheeked lady in skirts of gauze
    And the great big lion with folded paws!
                O me! O my!
                I'm glad that I
    Am not in that lion's cage, because
    _Suppose he'd open his horrible jaws!_
    --But look! the clown is coming! Of course
    Facing the tail of a spotted horse
    And shouting out things to make folks laugh,
    And grinning up at the tall giraffe
    That placidly paces along and looks
    Just like giraffes in the picture-books!

    And there are the elephants, two and two,
    Lumbering on as they always do!
    The men who lead them look so small
    I wonder the elephants mind at all
                As they wag their queer
                Long trunks, and peer
    Through their beady eyes,--folks say they know
    No end of things, and I'm sure it's so!
    And you never must do a thing that's bad
    Or that possibly might make an elephant mad,
    For he'll never forgive you, it appears,
    And will punish you sure, if it takes him _years!_
                So do not stare
                But take good care
    To mind your manners, and always try
    To smile politely as they go by!

    But the camels don't care if you laugh at them
    With their bumpy humps like a capital M,
                They lurch and sway
                And seem to say,
    As they wrinkle their noses, long and gray,
    "This swaggering stride is quite the plan,
    It's the way we walked in the caravan!"

    And now more cages come rumbling by
    With glittering people throned on high;
    So many spangles and precious things,
    They surely must all be queens and kings!
                They look so proud
                Above the crowd,
    O my, how fine it must feel to ride
    On golden wagons that hide inside
    Strange animals caught in cannibal isles
    And brought in ships for a million miles!
                But hark! it's near
                The end, for hear
    That sudden screeching in piercing key!
    The steaming, screaming _cal-li-o-pe_!
    Just plain pianos sound terribly tame
    Beside this one with the wonderful name,
    And wouldn't you love some day to sit
    In a circus wagon and play on it?




MAY-BASKETS


    Let us take our baskets early
      To the meadows green,
    While the wild-flowers still are pearly
      With the dewdrops' sheen.

    Fill them full of blossoms rosy,
      Violets and gay
    Cowslips, every pretty posy
      Welcoming the May.

    Then our lovely loads we'll carry
      Down the village street,
    On each door, with laughter merry,
      Hang a basket sweet.

    Hey-a-day-day! It is spring now,
      Lazy folks, awake!
    See the pretty things we bring now
      For the May-day's sake!




THE PICTURE-BOOK GIANT


    Once there was a fierce, defiant,
    Greedy, grumpy, grizzly giant
      In the pages of a picture-book, and he
    Sometimes screamed, in sudden rages,
    "I must jump out from these pages,
      For this life's a much too humdrum one for me!
                  Fiddle-dee!
      Yes, this life's a quite too quiet one for me!"

    So one rainy day he did it,
    Took the picture-book and hid it,
      Stamped his foot, and shouting loudly,
          "Now I'm free!"
    Boldly started out, forgetting
    That he could not stand a wetting!
    He was just a paper giant, don't you see?
              Dearie me!
    Just a gaudy, picture giant, don't you see?




DID YOU EVER?


    Did you ever see a fairy in a rose-leaf coat and cap
    Swinging in a cobweb hammock as he napped his noonday nap?

    Did you ever see one waken very thirsty and drink up
    All the honey-dew that glimmered in a golden buttercup?

    Did you ever see one fly away on rainbow-twinkling wings?
    If you did not, why, how comes it that you never see such things?




DECORATION DAY


    See the soldiers, little ones!
      Hark the drummers' beat!
    See them with their flags and guns
      Marching down the street!

    Tattered flags from out the wars,
      Let us follow these
    To the little stripes and stars
      Twinkling through the trees.

    Watch them waving through the grass
      Where the heroes sleep!
    Thither gently let us pass
      On this day we keep.

    Let us bring our blossoms, too,
      All our gardens grow;
    Lilacs honey-sweet with dew,
      And the lilies' snow.

    Every posy of the May,
      Every bloomy stem,
    Every bud that breaks to-day
      Gather now for them.

    Lay the lilies o'er them thus,
      Lovingly, for so
    Down they laid their lives for us,
      Long and long ago.

    Heap above them bud and bough;
      Softly, ere we cease,
    God, we pray Thee, gently now
      Fold them in Thy peace!




CHU-CHU CARS


    Turn the chairs down in a row
    Each behind the other, so;
    _Chu-chu! Chu-chu!_ there they are,
    Passenger and baggage-car,
    _Chu-chu-chu!_ the Morris chair
    Is the engine puffing there,
    _Chu-chu! Chu-chu! Ting-a-ling!_
    Don't you hear its big bell ring?
    All aboard! Jump on! if you
    Want to take this train. _Chu-chu!!_
    Off we start now, rushing fast
    Through the fields and valleys, past
    Noisy cities, over bridges,
    Hills and plains and mountain ridges,
    _Chu-chu! Chu-chu! Chu-chu-chu!!_
    At such speed it must be true
    Since we started we have come
    Most a million miles from home!
    Jump off, some one! Quick! and go
    To the pantry, for, you know,
    We must have the cookie-jar
    For our Pullman dining-car!




FAIRY RINGS


    Softly in the gloaming
      Flitting through the vale,
    Fairy folk are roaming
      Over hill and dale.

    Pixies in the hollow,
      Elves upon the height,
    Let us follow, follow
      Through the paling light.

    Follow, all unbidden,
      To the grassy glade
    Wrapped around and hidden
      In the forest shade.

    Hark the elfin tinkle
      Of their little lutes!
    Mark the golden twinkle
      Of their fairy flutes!

[Illustration: FAIRY RINGS]

    See them dancing, dancing,
      While the silver moon
    Tips their swiftly glancing
      Little silver shoon!

    Tripping, tripping lightly,
      Where their footprints fall,
    Look! the grass is brightly
      Growing green and tall!

    Springing close, unbroken,
      In a fairy ring,
    For to-morrow's token
      Of their frolicking!




THE FIREFLY


    Flash and flicker and fly away,
      Trailing light as you flutter far,
    Are you a lamp for the fairies, say?
      Or a flake of fire from a falling star?




A RAIN SONG


              Tinkle, tinkle,
                Lightly fall
      On the peach buds, pink and small;
    Tip the tiny grass, and twinkle
      On the clover, green and tall.

              Tinkle, tinkle,--
                Faster now,
      Little rain-drops, smite and sprinkle
    Cherry-bloom and apple-bough!
    Pelt the elms, and show them how
              You can dash!
                And splash! splash! splash!
    While the thunder rolls and mutters,
      And the lightnings flash and flash!
              Then eddy into curls
              Of a million misty swirls,
    And thread the air with silver, and embroider it with pearls!

    And patter, patter, patter
    To a quicker time, and clatter
      On the streaming window-pane;
              Rain, rain,
                On the leaves,
                  And the eaves,
      And the turning weather-vane!

    Rush in torrents from the tip
    Of the gable-peak, and drip
      In the garden-bed, and fill
        All the cuckoo-cups, and pour
              More and more
      In the tulip-bowls, and still
                Overspill
      In a crystal tide until
      Every yellow daffodil
    Is flooded to its golden rim, and brimming o'er and o'er!

    Then as gently as the low
      Muffled whir of robin wings,
      Or a sweep of silver strings,
                Even so,
        Take your airy April flight
        Through the merry April light,
    And melt into a mist of rainy music as you go!




FAIRIES


    Grandfather says that sometimes,
      When stars are twinkling and
    A new moon shines, there come times
      When folks see fairy-land!

    So when there's next a new moon,
      I mean to watch all night!
    Grandfather says a blue moon
      Is best for fairy light,

    And in a peach-bloom, maybe,
      If I look I shall see
    A little fairy baby
      No bigger than a bee!




THE LITTLE FIR-TREES


    Hey! little evergreens,
      Sturdy and strong!
    Summer and autumn time
      Hasten along;
    Harvest the sunbeams, then,
      Bind them in sheaves,
    Range them, and change them
      To tufts of green leaves.
    Delve in the mellow mold,
      Far, far below,
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!

    Up, up so airily
      To the blue sky,
    Lift up your leafy tips
      Stately and high;
    Clasp tight your tiny cones,
      Tawny and brown;
    By and by, buffeting
      Rains will pelt down;
    By and by, bitterly
      Chill winds will blow;
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!

    Gather all uttermost
      Beauty, because,--
    Hark, till I tell it now!
      How Santa Claus,
    Out of the northern land,
      Over the seas,
    Soon shall come seeking you,
      Evergreen trees!
    Seek you with reindeer soon,
      Over the snow;
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!

    What if the maples flare
      Flaunting and red,
    You shall wear waxen white
      Tapers instead!
    What if now, otherwhere,
      Birds are beguiled,
    You shall yet nestle
      The little Christ-child!
    Ah! the strange splendor
      The fir-trees shall know!
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!




THE WREN-HOUSE


    Yesterday I took my saw
      And some bits of wood,
    And I made a little house
      Nicely as I could.

    I put on a mossy-green
      Little pointed roof,
    And I cut a tiny door
      That is pussy-proof.

    For I hope some little wrens
      To our yard will come
    And will choose my little house
      For their little home.

    I shall hang it in the boughs
      Of the apple-tree,
    And I'm sure as rent for it
      They will sing to me!




THE BABY'S RIDE


    Chee! Chee! Chickadee!
      Sing-time and sun!
    Aye, aye, baby-bye,
      Springtime has begun!

       *       *       *       *       *

    In the little willow cart,
      On a downy bed,
    Pretty parasol of silk
      Swinging overhead,

    Let us go along the lane
      Where a baby sees
    Mighty tufts of grass, and weeds
      Tall as forest trees!

    Bluebird on the apple-bough,
      Sing and sing and sing!
    Sing your very sweetest now
      For babyhood and spring!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Bah! Bah!" from the pasture,
      And "Caw! Caw!" from the crow,
    And bleating from the little calf
      That has not learned to low.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Apple-buds, apple-buds breaking apart,
      The baby looks upward with love-laden gaze;
    Oh, shower some petals down here in his cart,
      One honey-sweet cluster of pretty pink sprays!

    Apple-buds, apple-buds, scornful and too
      Vain of your loveliness, stay where you are!
    The cheeks of the baby are pinker than you,
      And finer and softer and sweeter by far!

       *       *       *       *       *

    See the pretty little lambs,
      How they frisk and play!
    See their silky fleeces shine
      White as buds in May!

    White as are the fleecy clouds
      Softly blowing by--
    What if they were little lambs
      Playing in the sky?

       *       *       *       *       *

    Robin on the peach-bough,
      Swinging overhead,
    Sing a little song and say
      Why is your breast so red?

    Why is your voice so sweet, and
      Your song so merry, say?
    And wherefore do you spread your wings
      And quickly fly away?

       *       *       *       *       *

    Ho, ho! see the queer little prints there
      That cover the road, baby, look!
    At the web-footed tangle that hints where
      The ducks have gone down to the brook!

    The Muscovy mammas that waddled
      Zigzag, you can trace in their tracks,
    And the dear little ducklings that toddled
      And tumbled sometimes on their backs!

       *       *       *       *       *

    Buttercup, buttercup, buttercup gold,
    O give us a handful of riches to hold!

    Ho, ho! laughs the baby, and grasps in his glee
    His wealth, but soon shows what a spend-thrift is he!
    --Nay, nay, he is king, though he never was crowned,
    And royally scatters his gold on the ground!

       *       *       *       *       *

    Bough of the willow-tree
      Over the brook,
    Down darts a kingfisher,
      Look, baby, look!

    Back on the willow-bough,
      Fishing is done;
    Happy and nappy now
      There in the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Happy and nappy the baby is, too,
    Softly his eyelids droop over the blue,
    Golden his curls on the white pillow lie,
    Sleep, baby, sleep, baby, hush-a-by-bye.




AN INDIAN RAID


    Did you see some Indians passing,
      Just a short while back?
    Looks as if they must be massing
      For a fierce attack!

    Buckskin fringes, turkey-feather
      Huge head-dresses and
    Bows and arrows, altogether
      Quite a frightful band!

    From the lilac-bushes springing,
      See them rushing! Ugh!
    Awful war-whoops wildly ringing!
      There'll be scalping, too!

    In their fearful frenzy leaping,
      It is very plain
    Soon around us they'll be heaping
      Mountains of the slain!

    Soon their victims will be falling--
      But, above the noise,
    Hark! I hear somebody calling,
      "Come to dinner, boys!"




THE FIRST SLEIGH-RIDE


    O happy time of fleecy rime
      And falling flakes, and O
    The glad surprise in baby eyes
      That never saw the snow!

    Down shining ways the flying sleighs
      Go jingling by, and see!
    Beside the gate the horses wait
      And neigh for you and me!




SLEEPY TIME


    Hey, baby! Ho, baby! here upon my knee,
    See the firelight flicker over you and me!

    See the tiny people basking in the glow,
    Peering through the ruddy little coals, and so

    How they dance and scamper! Merry fairy folk!
    Little sparks for spangles, little wings of smoke!

    Come baby, come baby, nestle in my arms;
    Hear the purring flames now sing their sleepy charms.

    All the firelight fairies, all the drowsy elves,
    In the downy ashes cover up themselves.

    And I fold the little blanket over you;
    Bye baby, my baby, let us slumber too.




WHEN BETTIE AND ANNE WENT WALKING


        When they took their dollies walking,
        They were both so busy talking,
    (They had not met for half an hour and so had much to say)
        That they heedlessly kept going
        Down the shady streets, not knowing,
    Till they wanted to come back again, they could not find the way!

        In their fright they felt forlorner
        Every time they turned a corner,
    And they wailed to one another, "Oh, whatever shall we do?
        A big bear might come to bite us,
        Or a dreadful dog to fight us,
    Or the wicked gipsies get us! _Oh, boo-hoo! Boo-hoo! Boo-hoo!_"

        But this story, though a sad one,
        Has an end that's not a bad one,
    For at last somebody found them as they bade the world good-by;
        They took their dollies home again,
        And vowed they'd never roam again,
    And their mothers hugged and kissed them, saying, "There, my dears,
            don't cry!"




THE BLUEBIRD


    To-day at dawn there twinkled through
    The pearly mist a flash of blue
      So dazzling bright I thought the sky
      Shone through the rifted clouds on high,
              Till, by and by,
    A note so honey-sweet I heard,
    I knew that bright flash was a bird!




THE ORGAN-GRINDER


    Hark! I hear the organ-grinder
      Coming down the street,
    And the sudden clatter-patter
      Of the children's feet!

    Come, oh, let us run to meet him!
      Did you ever hear
    Tunes so gay as he is playing,
      Or so sweet and clear?

    See the brown-faced little monkey,
      Impudent and bold,
    With his little scarlet jacket
      Braided all in gold!

    And his tiny cap and tassel
      Bobbing to and fro,
    Look, oh, look! he plucks it off now,
      Bowing very low.

    And he's passing it politely--
      Can it be for _pay_?
    O dear me! I have no penny!
      Let us run away!




THE NEW MOON


    Pretty new moon, little new moon,
      Now, as first I look at you,
    I must make a wish, for wise folks
      Say it surely will come true!

    Little new moon, pretty new moon,
      I wish--but I must not tell!
    For if any one should hear it,
      Wise folks say it breaks the spell!




SHOWERY TIME


    The April rain-drops tinkle
      In cuckoo-cups of gold,
    And warm south winds unwrinkle
      The buds the peach-boughs hold.

    In countless fluted creases
      The little elm-leaves show,
    While white as carded fleeces
      The dogwood blossoms blow.

    A rosy robe is wrapping
      The early red-bud trees;
    But still the haws are napping,
      Nor heed the honey-bees.

    And still in lazy sleeping
      The apple-buds are bound,
    But tulip-tips are peeping
      From out the garden ground.

    And yonder, gayly swinging
      Upon the turning vane,
    A robin redbreast singing
      Makes merry at the rain!




EASTER DAY


    Christ the Lord is risen to-day!
    Angels rolled the stone away
    From the tomb wherein He lay!

    Little children, come and sing,
    "Glory, glory to the King,
    Christ the Lord of everything!"




THE SANDMAN


    The Sandman! hark, I hear him!
      He's coming up the stair,
    And everybody near him
      Is nodding, I declare!

    He's peeping in the door now,
      And first of all he spies,
    As he has done before now,
      The little children's eyes!

    Then quickly does he throw it,
      His golden sleepy-sand,
    And all, before they know it,
      Are off for sleepy-land!




DANDELION CURLS


    Ah, ha, ha, now! who comes here
    Wreathed in flowers of gold and queer
    Tiny tangled curls of green
    Gayly bobbing in between?

    Pretty token of the spring!
    Hark! we hear the bluebirds sing
    When we thus see little girls
    Decked in dandelion curls.




POP-CORN


             _Pop! Pop!--Poppetty-pop!_
    Shake and rattle and rattle and shake
    The golden grains as they bounce and break
    To fluffy puffiness--_Poppetty-pop!_
    Bursting and banging the popper's top!
             _Poppetty-pop!
                  Pop! Pop!_

    The yellow kernels, oh, see them grow
    White as cotton or flakes of snow!
               _Pop! Pop!_
    O-ho, how they frolic and fly about
    And turn themselves suddenly inside out!
    _Pop-pop-poppetty! Pop-pop-pop!_
    The popper's full and we'll have to stop;
    Pile the bowl with the tempting treat,
    Children, come, it is time to eat!




THE RASH LITTLE SPARROW


      Rash little sparrow
        Up in the nest;
    Feathers not long enough,
    Wee wings not strong enough!
        Poor little sparrow!
        Poor little breast!




WHAT IF?


    When I see the new moon lightly
     Through cloud ripples slip,
    Then I'm sure that shining brightly
     It's a fairy ship!

    What if in it we were sailing
     Far and far away,
    With a wake of silver trailing,
     Till the golden day?

    Why, we'd fly back home together
     Safely from the sky,
    For the moon's a fairy feather
     When the sun is high!




EASTER EGGS


    Seven little nests of hay
    We have made, for Easter day
    Is to-morrow, and you know
    We must have them ready, so
    When the Rabbit comes she'll see
    We expected her, that we
    Children tried our very best
    Each to make the nicest nest.

    One is in the lilac-bush,
    Near the ground--last year a thrush
    Built a nest there--let me see,
    Two are by the apple-tree,
    In the clover--that makes three--
    One beside the playhouse door,
    --Three plus one, that must be four--
    Two are in the tulip-bed--
    Was it seven that I said?
    Oh, yes! six I've counted, and
    One is in our pile of sand.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Come and see! Oh, hurry, hurry!
    For the Rabbit, kind and furry,
    Has been here again and laid
    Eggs in every nest we made!
    Purple, orange, red, and blue,
    Pink and green and yellow, too,
    Like a bunch of finest flowers
    Ever seen, and all are ours!
    And oh, _look!_ What _do_ you think!
    Here our names are in white ink,
    All spelled nicely so we know
    Just where every egg should go!
    Is it not surprising, quite,
    How well Easter Rabbits write?




THE BIRDS' BATH


    In our garden we have made
      Such a pretty little pool,
    Lined with pebbles neatly laid,
      Filled with water clean and cool.

    [Illustration: THE BIRDS' BATH]

    When the sun shines warm and high
      Robins cluster round its brink,
    Never one comes flying by
      But will flutter down to drink.

    Then they splash and splash and splash,
      Spattering little showers bright
    All around, till off they flash
      Singing sweetly their delight.




NOVEMBER MORNING


    A tingling, misty marvel
      Blew hither in the night,
    And now the little peach-trees
      Are clasped in frozen light.

    Upon the apple-branches
      An icy film is caught,
    With trailing threads of gossamer
      In pearly patterns wrought.

    The autumn sun, in wonder,
      Is gayly peering through
    This silver-tissued network
      Across the frosty blue.

    The weather-vane is fire-tipped,
      The honeysuckle shows
    A dazzling icy splendor,
      And crystal is the rose.

    Around the eaves are fringes
      Of icicles that seem
    To mock the summer rainbows
      With many-colored gleam.

    Along the walk, the pebbles
      Are each a precious stone;
    The grass is tasseled hoarfrost,
      The clover jewel-sown.

    Such sparkle, sparkle, sparkle
      Fills all the frosty air,
    Oh, can it be that darkness
      Is ever anywhere!




THE RUNAWAY


    A frantic clatter of horses' feet!
    A runaway's coming down the street!
          Flurry, scurry,
          Children, hurry!
    Drop your playthings! Quick! don't wait!
    Run and get within the gate!
    Push the baby in the door,
    Scramble in yourselves before
          --_Whoa! Whoa!_
          There they go!
    Pell-mell rushing, snorting, quaking,
    Wagon rumbling, harness breaking,
    Frightened so they cannot know
    Everybody's shrieking "_Whoa!_"
          O my, don't cry!
      Whiz, bang, they've galloped by!
    No one hurt, but horses dashed
    Round a post and wagon smashed!
          Dear me! Dear me!
      When a runaway we see,
    Children, too, must run, oh, fast!
    Run and hide as it goes past!




LOST!


    "Peep! Peep! Peep!" Poor little chick!
      Little cry so weak and small,
    Meadow grass so tall and thick,
      And the clover tufts so tall!

    Little heart in sore distress,
      Longing for the mother wing;
    Through the weedy wilderness
      Searching for its sheltering!




THE QUEEN'S PAGE


    Once I was a little page
      To a May-day queen,
    And I wore a little coat
      Made of Lincoln green.

    Oh, the queen was beautiful!
      And she had a bright
    Crown of golden cuckoo-buds
      And violets blue and white.

    On the step beside her throne
      I sat very still,
    Ready, as a page should be,
      To obey her will.

    And before us little girls,
      Each with garlands gay,
    Round a May-pole danced and sang
      Almost all the day.




OUR TREE-TOAD


    Grandfather says the tree-toad,
      That to our yard has come,
    Is just a little wee toad
      No bigger than his thumb!

    And that his coat's so queer it
      Can turn from green to blue!
    Whatever color's near it,
      Why, that's its color, too!

    And then Grandfather snickers
      And says, "Would you suppose
    He climbs with little stickers
      On all his little toes?

    "And don't you wish your toes now
      Were fixed like his? For, see,
    Right up the elm he goes now
      And sticks tight to the tree!"

    "But then," he says, "O dear me!
      If all the little boys
    Could _screech_ as loud, I fear me
      There'd be a dreadful noise!"




IN THE WATER-WORLD


    Down among the water-weeds,
      Darting through the grass,
    Round about the tasseled reeds,
      See the minnows pass!
    See the little turtles there,
      Hiding, half asleep,
    Tucked in tangled mosses where
      Tiny crayfish creep!

    Watch the trailing grasses string
      Strands of purple shells
    That the lazy ripples ring,
      Sweet as silver bells;
    Watch the sunshine sift and drift
      Down the eddy whirls,
    Whence the laden whiteweeds lift
      Loads of blossom pearls;

    While the limpid shadows slip
      Softly in between,
    And the pussy-willows dip
      Lightly in the green
    Of the mocking trees that grow
      Down the water-sky,
    Flecked with fleecy clouds that blow
      Where the reed-birds fly.

    Oh, such marvels manifold
      Fill the summer stream,
    Such enticing things untold
      Through the ripples gleam,
    If you could a moment turn
      Into what you wish,
    Would it not be fun to be
      Yonder little fish?




WHO WAS IT?


    Of course I've heard the moon's green cheese,
    But will somebody tell me, please,
    Who was it took so big a bite
    There's scarcely any left to-night?




VISITING DAY


    I'll wear the striped skirt that trails,
      And you the flowered one,
    And we will take our parasols
      And walk out in the sun.

    We'll leave our dolly-carts at home,
      For ladies, when they call,
    Must not have children with them, no,
      That would not do at all.

    And I'll be "Mrs. Wilkinson,"
      And you'll be "Mrs. Brown,"
    And we will call and call and call
      On every one in town!




A VALENTINE TO CATHERINE


    If you will be my True-Love,
      I'll tell you what I'll do,
    I'll ask a little bluebird
      To sing a song to you.

    When first you see a violet
      And softly pricking through
    The garden-bed come crocuses
      And golden tulips, too,

    Then watch! for he'll be coming,
      The little bird of blue;
    He'll sing, "I love you, Sweetheart,
      It's true, true, true!"




FIREFLIES


    Look! Look down in the garden how
    The firefly lights are flitting now!
    A million tiny sparks I know
    Flash through the pinks and golden-glow,
    And I am very sure that all
    Have come to light a fairy ball,
    And if I could stay up I'd see
    How gay the fairy folks can be!




THE RAINY DAY


    Let's sail all day, away, away
      To the splendid Spanish Main
    And the sultry seas of the Caribbees
      And skies that never rain!

    As pirates bold with bags of gold
      And cutlasses and things,
    We'll pack doubloons and silver spoons
      In chests with iron rings.

    And these we'll carry and secretly bury
      In cannibal isles afar;
    Like Captain Kidd, when they're safely hid
      We won't tell where they are.

    Let's sail all day, away, away
      To the splendid Spanish Main
    And the sultry seas of the Caribbees
      --But at night sail home again!




THE FIRST RED-BIRD


    I heard a song at daybreak,
      So honey-sweet and clear,
    The essence of all joyous things
      Seemed mingling in its cheer.

    The frosty world about me
      I searched with eager gaze,
    But all was slumber-bound and wrapped
      In violet-tinted haze.

    Then suddenly a sunbeam
      Shot slanting o'er the hill,
    And once again from out the sky
      I heard that honied trill.

    And there upon a poplar,
      Poised at its topmost height,
    I saw a little singer clad
      In scarlet plumage bright.

    The poplar branches quivered,
      By dawn winds lightly blown,
    And like a breeze-swept poppy-flower
      The red-bird rocked and shone.

    The blue sky, and his feathers
      Flashed o'er by golden light,
    Oh, all my heart with rapture thrilled,
      It was so sweet a sight!




THE WEATHER-VANE


    Turn, turn, when pelting rain
    Rushes down the window-pane;
    Turn, turn, and turn again
    When the sun shines, weather-vane!

      Fie! Fie! to always be
      Emblem of uncertainty!
      Followed by the restless sea,
    Changeful moons may wax and wane,
      Yet the moons and sea-tides, too,
      Constant are compared to you!
    Fickle still you must remain
    Long as winds blow, weather-vane!




THE SWAN


    Stately swan, so proud and white
    Glistening in the morning light,
    Come and tell me is it true
    That a snow-white swan like you,
    Guided by bright golden chains
    In his beak for bridle reins,
    Once upon a time from far
    Fabled lands where fairies are
    Brought a magic boat wherein
    Rode the brave knight Lohengrin?

    Stately swan, so proud and white
    Glistening in the morning light,
    If you only wore a gold
    Harness, like that swan of old,
    And if trailing in your wake
    Sailing on the silver lake
    Was a boat of magic and
    You could float to fairy-land,
    Then I'd jump in and begin
    Traveling like Lohengrin!




BABY'S BAKING


    So, so, spade and hoe,
      Little pile of sand;
    See it turning into dough
      In the baby's hand!

    Little pie with crimpy crust,
      Set it in the sun;
    Sugar it with powdered dust,
      And bake it till it's done.




A SURE SIGN


    When you see upon the walk
    Circles newly made of chalk,
    And around them all the day
    Little boys in eager play
    Rolling marbles, agates fine,
    Banded, polished, red as wine,
    Marbles crystal as the dew,
    Each with rainbows twisted through,
    Marbles gay in painted clay,
    Flashing, twinkling in your way,
    When the walk has blossomed so,
    Surely every one must know
    None need wonder who has heard
    Robin, wren, or Peter-bird;
    Sure the sign as song or wing,
          It is spring!




ANOTHER SURE SIGN


    When pink-cheeked on every hand
    Little girls are seen to stand
    Turning skipping ropes,--_swish-swash!_--
    While their laughing playmates run
    Jumping over,--oh, what fun!--
      _Swish-swash! Swish-swash!_
    Two and two now, see them dash!
      _One, two, one, two,_
    Round they scamper, safely through,
    _Swish-swash!_ such merry skipping,
    _One, two,_--some one is tripping!
    Ah, she's out now and must pay
    Turning rope while others play!
    See the bobbing golden curls,
    Little skirts in rhythmic swirls
    Rising, falling, to the beat
    Of the little skipping feet!
    When these pretty sights appear,
    It is surely very clear
            April's here!




THE ROBIN'S BATH


    A flash and flicker of dripping wings,
      A wet red breast that glows
    Bright as the newly opened bud
      The first red poppy shows,
    A sparkle of flying rainbow drops,
      A glint of golden sun
    On ruffled feathers, a snatch of song,
      And the robin's bath is done.




THE FROSTED PANE


        When I wakened, very early,
        All my window-pane was pearly
    With a sparkling little picture traced in lines of shining white;
        Some magician with a gleaming
        Frosty brush, while I was dreaming,
    Must have come and by the starlight worked through all the quiet night.

        He had painted frosty people,
        And a frosty church and steeple,
    And a frosty bridge and river tumbling over frosty rocks;
        Frosty mountain peaks that glimmered,
        And fine frosty ferns that shimmered,
    And a frosty little pasture full of frosty little flocks.

        It was all touched in so lightly
        And it glittered, oh, so whitely,
    That I gazed and gazed in wonder at the lovely painted pane;
        Then the sun rose high and higher
        With his wand of golden fire
    Till, alas, my picture vanished and I looked for it in vain!




THE FIRST SNOW


    The snow! the snow! Whoop! Hooray! Ho! Ho!
    Plunge in the deep drifts and toss it up so!
      Rollick and roll in the feathery fleece
      Plucked out of the breasts of the marvelous geese
    By the little old woman who lives in the sky;
    Have ever you seen her? No, neither have I!




GRANDFATHER KNOWS


    Grandfather says of all things
      The silliest he's heard
    Is that some children call things
      They've never seen, "absurd!"
    And have their doubts of true things,
      And won't believe, because
    They say, "If you but knew things,
      There _is_ no Santa Claus!"

    Grandfather says he _knows_ him,
      And sees him every year,
    And Santa often shows him
      The playthings he brings here;
    He says, too, Santa told him
      If any girls and boys
    Laugh at and won't uphold him,
      They'll not get any toys!




SLEIGH-BELLS


    Tinkle, tinkle, tinkle!
      Happy winter-time!
    Baby's eyes a-twinkle,
      Hear the sleigh-bells chime!

    Each one rings a merry
      Ting-a-ling-a-ling!
    For a sleigh-bell fairy
      Hides inside to sing.

    See them quake and quiver,
      Up and downward tossed,
    Seems as if they shiver
      In the nipping frost!

    Shiver into laughter,
      Jolly little elves!
    Till we laugh thereafter,
      Merry as themselves!




THE RED-BIRD


    Swept lightly by the south wind
      The elm-leaves softly stirred,
    And in their pale green clusters
      There straightway bloomed a bird!

    His glossy feathers glistened
      With dyes as richly red
    As any tulip flaming
      From out the garden bed.

    But ah, unlike the tulips,
      In joyous strain, ere long,
    This red-bird flower unfolded
      A heart of golden song!




WILD BEASTS


    I will be a lion
      And you shall be a bear,
    And each of us will have a den
      Beneath a nursery chair;
    And you must growl and growl and growl,
      And I will roar and roar,
    And then--why, then--you'll growl again,
      And I will roar some more!




WHEREFORE WINGS?


    Heigho, sparrow! Reckless of the rain;
      When chill the cheerless wind grows,
    Chirping might and main!
      Is it naught, then, when the rose
                Blows again?

    Beating, sleeting on your draggled coat!
      Surely, 'tis enough to drown
    Any happy note
      Nestling in that downy brown
                Little throat.

    Ah me, sparrow! Had I but your power,
      Think you in the freezing sleet
    I would waste an hour?
      --I'd sing my sweetest to a sweet
                Orange flower!




BASKING


    Frosty winter chased away
      By the blessed sun,
    Down upon the garden walks
      Basking has begun.

    Oh, the happy, happy heat!
      How the pulses stir,
    How it warms the hearts beneath
      Little coats of fur!

    Oh, the happy pussy-cats!
      Days to doze and doze,
    And what pleasant dreams they dream
      Only pussy knows.




WITH A MAY-BASKET FOR BABY AGNES


              Peach-buds to meet thee,
              Robins to greet thee,
    Hey, little Sweetheart! and May morning, hey!
              Sunbeam and sing time,
              Bluebird and wing time,
    This time is kiss time for sweethearts, I say!

              Dearest, God bless thee,
              Fold and caress thee,
    Unto thy cradle may good fairies fly!
              Fortune be fair for thee,
              This is my prayer for thee,
    Lullaby, little one, hush-a-by-bye!

              So for a love now
              Token thereof now,
    Sweet, see this tiny May-basket I bring;
              Posies to play with,
              Pinks to be gay with,
    Dear little baby of sunshine and spring!




THE LITTLE NEST


    A little picture haunts me;
      It comes and comes again;
    It is a tiny bird's-nest,
      All ragged from the rain.

    It clings within a birch-tree
      Upon the moorland's edge,
    Between the barren branches,
      Above the swaying sedge.

    The sky is gray behind it,
      And when the north winds blow,
    The birch-tree bends and shivers,
      And tosses to and fro.

    I wonder, does it haunt them,
      The birds that flew away?
    And will they come to seek it,
      Some sunny summer day?

    I wonder, does some redbreast
      Upon an orange-bough,
    Still picture it as plainly
      As I can see it now?

    Ah me! I would forget it,
      Yet still, with sense of pain,
    I see this little bird's-nest
      Within the driving rain.




CHRISTMAS CANDLES


    When the Christ-child comes again
      Softly down the street to-night,
    Twinkling through the window pane
      Let our candles shed their light.

    Though the clouds are dark above
      And the golden stars are dim,
    We can tell Him of our love
      If we set a light for Him.

    Oh, the blessed Christ-child dear,
      In His robe of shining white,
    Let our candles give Him cheer
      As He passes by to-night!




A SONG OF THE CHRISTMAS-TREE

[Illustration: CHRISTMAS CANDLES]

    We can tell Him of our love
      If we set a light for Him.


    Hurrah! Hurrah! for the Christmas-tree
    With its glory and glitter and mystery!
    Its twinkling candles that bud and bloom
    Like strange bright flowers in the darkened room,
    Its glistening gold and silver balls,
    Its candy canes and its blue-eyed dolls,
    The sugary fruits it bears,--for oh,
    Where else do such wonderful sweetmeats grow?--
    Its tasseled horns and its pop-corn strings
    And all its myriad marvelous things!
                O-ho! and ah-ha!
                  And a hip hurrah!
    For our dear and beautiful tree, because
    It grew in the gardens of Santa Claus

    And he brought it here in his reindeer sleigh
    From ever and ever so far away!
      _So, children, come, let us make a ring
      And all clasp hands as we dance and sing
      To the blessed tree and the blessed night
      When the Christ-child walks in the candles' light!_

    Hurrah! Hurrah! for the Christmas-tree
    That Santa Claus brought to you and me!
    He cut it down with a silver axe--
    There's a tree in each of his million packs!--
    And carried it safely over the snow
    And down our chimney and here, you know;
    Its golden cobwebs that glint and gleam
    He took from a lovely Christmas dream
    And tangled them over it till, behold,
    It shines like the fabled Fleece of Gold!

                Oh, Santa Claus, here's
                  A thrice three cheers
    For garlands green and berries of red,
    And mistletoe clustering overhead,
    For the joy of our Christmas festival!
    But our beautiful tree, it is best of all!
      _And circling still in a merry ring
      We'll still clasp hands as we dance and sing
      To the blessed tree and the blessed night
      When the Christ-child walks in the candles' light!_

    Hurrah! Hurrah! for the Christmas-tree!
    And look, O look to its tip and see
    The feathery slim fir leaves and where,
    In the topmost boughs, is the image fair
    Of the Christ-child nestling amid the green
    And the little brown cones that peep between!

    And high above Him glittering bright
    A gold star sparkles with golden light,
    And we children think, as we gaze on them,
    Of the wonderful Star of Bethlehem,
                Of the lovely Star
                  And the Kings who far,
    Oh, far, came seeking a Babe and brought
    Their love and worship to Him they sought,
    And made Him gifts, as the gifts we make
    With loving hearts for that Baby's sake.
      _Oh, come, come all, and join the ring!
      Let all clasp hands as we dance and sing
      To the blessed tree and the blessed night
      When the Christ-child walks in the candles' light!_




OUR KITTENS


    Our kittens have the softest fur,
    And the sweetest little purr,
    And such little velvet paws
    With such cunning little claws,
    And blue eyes, just like the sky!
    (_Must_ they turn green, by and by?)
    Two are striped like tigers, three
    Are as black as black can be,
    And they run so fast and play
    With their tails, and are so gay,
    Is it not a pity that
    Each must grow into a cat?




IN JULY


    Let us find a shady wady
      Pretty little brook;
    Let us have some candy handy,
      And a picture-book.

    There all day we'll stay and play and
      Never mind the heat,
    While the water gleaming, streaming,
      Ripples round our feet.

    And we'll gather curly pearly
      Mussel-shells while bright
    Frightened minnows darting, parting,
      Scurry out of sight.

    What if, what if,--heigho! my oh!--
      All the "ifs" were true,
    And the little fishes wishes,
      Now, what would you do?




A VALENTINE TO A LITTLE CHILD


    Dear heart, on this thrice-blessed day,
      An thou my sweetheart be,
    The rose of love shall bide alway
      Upon the red-rose tree.

    And in the garden of my heart
      So ceaselessly shall shine,
    The little birds will know thou art
      Mine own true Valentine.

    And I will bid them wing and sing
      To all good winds that blow,
    That to thy little feet they bring
      All blessings, even so.

    And o'er thy cradle I will coax,
      By every lucky charm,
    The friendship of the fairy folks
      To fold thee from all harm.

    So may they hover round thy head
      And gently thereupon,
    As doth the April sunshine, shed
      Most gracious benison.

    And all fair gifts that Fortune hath,
      I'll pray she promise these,
    And that she loose about thy path
      All sweet influences.

    Then here's a kiss! and there's a kiss!
      And kisses, one, two, three!
    I seal them in the folds of this,
      And speed them unto thee!




ZIP!


    When we went to drive the cows home
      Down the lane to-day,
    There was such a funny bunny
      Jumped across the way!

    All we saw as he ran past us,
      Faster than a quail,
    Was his snow-white fuzzy-wuzzy
      Little cotton tail!




A LITTLE CAROL


    Welcome, little Brother!
      Lowly, holy One!
    Hail thee, Virgin Mother,
    More than any other
      Blessed in thy Son!

    Child, since the poor manger
      Once thou didst not scorn,
    Rest thee, little Stranger,
    Folded from all danger,
      In our hearts new-born!

    Nestle thus, we pray thee,
      In our love's caress;
    Fain we are to pay thee
    Worship, and obey thee,
      Babe, and Prince no less!




SONG


    Honey-dew drippity-drops for a feast,
    Dreams of delight when the feasting has ceased,
                Poppy and rose,
                Drain them and doze;
    This is a song that the butterfly knows.




THE THREE CANDLES


    When the Christmas-tide drew nigh,
    On a shelf three candles bright,
    Two were red and one was white,
    Waited for who came to buy.

    Said the first one, "I shall be
    Chosen for a Christmas-tree!"
    Said the second, "I shall light
    Christ Jesus on His way to-night!"
    Then the third one sighed, "Ah me,
    I know not what my lot will be!"

    When the dark fell, bright and gay
    The first candle burned away,
    Red as all the berries red
    On the holly overhead,
    While the children in their glee
    Danced around the Christmas-tree.

    And the second, twinkling bright,
    Poured forth all its golden light
    Through a window decked with green
    Garlands and red ribbons' sheen,
    So the Christ-child when He came
    Might be guided by its flame.

    But the third one in the gloom
    Of a bare and cheerless room
    Softly burned where long had lain
    A poor little child in pain,
    And the baby in its bed
    By the light was comforted.

    When the Christ-child passed that night
    All three candles gave Him light,
    But the brightest was the spark
    By the baby in the dark.

﻿
[Illustration]

BED IN SUMMER


    In winter I get up at night,
    And dress by yellow candle light.
    In summer quite the other way,
    I have to go to bed by day.

    I have to go to bed and see
    The birds still hopping on the tree,
    Or hear the grown-up people's feet,
    Still going past me in the street.

[Illustration]

    And does it not seem hard to you,
    When all the sky is clear and blue,
    And I should like so much to play,
    To have to go to bed by day?




YOUNG NIGHT THOUGHT


    All night long and every night,
    When my mamma puts out the light
    I see the people marching by,
    As plain as day, before my eye.

    Armies and emperors and kings,
    All carrying different kinds of things,
    And marching in so grand a way,
    You never saw the like by day.

    So fine a show was never seen
    At the great circus on the green;
    For every kind beast and man
    Is marching in that caravan.

    At first they move a little slow,
    But still the faster on they go,
    And still beside them close I keep
    Until we reach the Town of Sleep.

[Illustration]




PIRATE STORY


    Three of us afloat in the meadow by the swing.
    Three of us aboard in the basket on the lea.
    Winds are in the air, they are blowing in the spring,
    And waves are on the meadow like the waves there are at sea.

    Where shall we adventure, to-day that we're afloat,
      Wary of the weather and steering by a star?
    Shall it be to Africa, a-steering of the boat,
      To Providence, or Babylon, or off to Malabar?

    Hi! but here's a squadron a-rowing on the sea--
      Cattle on the meadow a-charging with a roar!
    Quick, and we'll escape them, they're as mad as they can be,
    The wicket is the harbor and the garden is the shore.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




FAREWELL TO THE FARM


    The coach is at the door at last;
    The eager children, mounting fast
    And kissing hands, in chorus sing:
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

    To house and garden, field and lawn,
    The meadow-gates we swung upon,
    To pump and stable, tree and swing,
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

    And fare you well for evermore,
    O ladder at the hayloft door,
    O hayloft where the cobwebs cling,
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

    Crack goes the whip, and off we go;
    The trees and houses smaller grow;
    Last, round the woody turn we swing:
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




THE LAND OF COUNTERPANE


    When I was sick and lay a-bed,
    I had two pillows at my head,
    And all my toys beside me lay
    To keep me happy all the day.

    And sometimes for an hour or so
    I watched my leaden soldiers go,
    With different uniforms and drills,
    Among the bed-clothes, through the hills.

    And sometimes sent my ships in fleets
    All up and down among the sheets;
    Or brought my trees and houses out,
    And planted cities all about.

    I was the giant great and still
    That sits upon the pillow-hill,
    And sees before him, dale and plain
    The pleasant Land of Counterpane.

[Illustration]

    Come up here, O dusty feet!
      Here is fairy bread to eat

    Here in my retiring room,
      Children, you may dine

    On the golden smell of broom
      And the shade of pine

    And when you have eaten well,
      Fairy stories hear and tell.

[Illustration]




ESCAPE AT BEDTIME


    The lights from the parlor and kitchen shone out
      Through the blinds and the windows and bars;
    And high over head and all moving about,
      There were thousands of millions of stars.
    There ne'er were such thousands of leaves on a tree,
      Nor of people in church or the Park,
    As the crowds of the stars that looked down upon me,
      And that glittered and winked in the dark.

    The Dog, and the Plough, and the Hunter and all,
      And the star of the sailor, and Mars,
    These shone in the sky, and the pail by the wall
      Would be half full of water and stars.
    They saw me at last, and they chased me with cries,
      And they soon had me packed into bed;
    But the glory kept shining and bright in my eyes,
    And the stars going round in my head.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




A GOOD PLAY


    We built a ship upon the stairs
    All made of the back-bedroom chairs,
    And filled it full of sofa pillows
    To go a-sailing on the billows.

    We took a saw and several nails,
    And water in the nursery pails;
    And Tom said, "Let us also take
    An apple and a slice of cake;"--
    Which was enough for Tom and me
    To go a-sailing on, till tea.

    We sailed along for days and days,
    And had the very best of plays;
    But Tom fell out and hurt his knee,
    So there was no one left but me.

[Illustration]




MARCHING SONG


    Bring the comb and play upon it!
      Marching, here we come!
    Willie cocks his highland bonnet,
      Johnnie beats the drum.

    Mary Jane commands the party,
      Peter leads the rear;
    Feet in time, alert and hearty,
      Each a Grenadier!

    All in the most martial manner
      Marching double-quick;
    While the napkin like a banner
      Waves upon the stick!

    Here's enough of fame and pillage,
      Great commander Jane!
    Now that we've been round the village,
      Let's go home again.

[Illustration: "_Boats of mine a-boating_"]




WHERE GO THE BOATS?


    Dark brown is the river,
        Golden is the sand.
    It flows along for ever,
        With trees on either hand.

    Green leaves a-floating,
        Castles of the foam,
    Boats of mine a-boating--
        Where will all come home?

    On goes the river
        And out past the mill,
    Away down the valley,
        Away down the hill.

    Away down the river,
        A hundred miles or more,
    Other little children
        Shall bring my boats ashore.




THE HAYLOFT


    Through all the pleasant meadow-side
      The grass grew shoulder-high,
    Till the shining scythes went far and wide
      And cut it down to dry.

    These green and sweetly smelling crops
      They led in wagons home;
    And they piled them here in mountain-tops
      For mountaineers to roam.

    Here is Mount Clear, Mount Rusty-Nail,
      Mount Eagle and Mount High;--
    The mice that in these mountains dwell,
      No happier are than I!

    O what a joy to clamber there,
      O what a place for play,
    With the sweet, the dim, the dusty air,
      The happy hills of hay!

[Illustration]




AUNTIE'S SKIRTS


    Whenever Auntie moves around
      Her dresses make a curious sound.
    They trail behind her up the floor,
      And trundle after through the door.

[Illustration]




THE MOON


    The moon has a face like the clock in the hall;
    She shines on thieves on the garden wall,
    On streets and fields and harbor quays,
    And birdies asleep in the forks of the trees.

    The squalling cat and the squeaking mouse,
    The howling dog by the door of the house,
    The bat that lies in bed at noon,
    All love to be out by the light of the moon.

    But all of the things that belong to the day
    Cuddle to sleep to be out of her way;
    And flowers and children close their eyes
    Till up in the morning the sun shall rise.

[Illustration]




THE COW


    The friendly cow all red and white,
        I love with all my heart:
    She gives me cream with all her might,
        To eat with apple-tart.

    She wanders lowing here and there,
        And yet she cannot stray,
    All in the pleasant open air,
        The pleasant light of day.

    And blown by all the winds that pass
        And wet with all the showers,
    She walks among the meadow grass
        And eats the meadow flowers.

[Illustration]




FOREIGN LANDS


    Up into the cherry tree
    Who should climb but little me?
    I held the trunk with both my hands
    And looked abroad on foreign lands.

    I saw the next door garden lie,
    Adorned with flowers, before my eye,
    And many pleasant places more
    That I had never seen before.

    I saw the dimpling river pass
    And be the sky's blue looking-glass;
    The dusty roads go up and down
    With people tramping into town.

    If I could find a higher tree
    Farther and farther I should see,
    To where the grown-up river slips
    Into the sea among the ships.

    To where the roads on either hand
    Lead onward into fairy land,
    Where all the children dine at five,
    And all the playthings come alive.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




SYSTEM


    Every night my prayers I say,
    And get my dinner every day;
    And every day that I've been good
    I get an orange after food.

    The child that is not clean and neat,
    With lots of toys and things to eat,
    He is a naughty child, I'm sure--
    Or else his dear papa is poor.

[Illustration]




AT THE SEASIDE


    When I was down beside the sea,
    A wooden spade they gave to me
      To dig the sandy shore.
    My holes were hollow like a cup,
    In every hole the sea came up,
      Till it could hold no more.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




HAPPY THOUGHT


    The world is so full of a number of things,
    I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings

[Illustration]




THE LAND OF NOD


    From breakfast on through all the day
    At home among my friends I stay,
    But every night I go abroad
    Afar into the Land of Nod.

    All by myself I have to go,
    With none to tell me what to do--
    All alone beside the streams
    And up the mountain-sides of dreams.

    The strangest things are there for me,
    Both things to eat and things to see,
    And many frightening sights abroad
    Till morning in the Land of Nod.

    Try as I like to find the way,
    I never can get back by day,
    Nor can remember plain and clear
    The curious music that I hear.

[Illustration]




WINDY NIGHTS


    Whenever the moon and stars are set,
      Whenever the wind is high,
    All night long in the dark and wet,
      A man goes riding by.
    Late in the night when the fires are out,

[Illustration]

    Why does he gallop and gallop about?
    Whenever the trees are crying aloud,
      And ships are tossed at sea,
    By, on the highway, low and loud,
      By at the gallop goes he.
    By at the gallop he goes, and then
    By he comes back at the gallop again.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




TIME TO RISE


    A birdie with a yellow bill
      Hopped up on the window sill,
    Cocked his shining eye and said:
    'Ain't you 'shamed, you sleepy-head?'

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




RAIN


    The rain is raining all around.
      It falls on field and tree,
    It rains on the umbrellas here,
      And on the ships at sea.

[Illustration]




FOREIGN CHILDREN


    Little Indian, Sioux or Crow,
    Little frosty Eskimo,
    Little Turk or Japanee,
    O! don't you wish that you were me?

    You have seen the scarlet trees
    And the lions over seas;
    You have eaten ostrich eggs,
    And turned the turtles off their legs.

    Such a life is very fine,
    But it's not so nice as mine:
    You must often, as you trod,
    Have wearied _not_ to be abroad.

    You have curious things to eat,
    I am fed on proper meat;
    You must dwell beyond the foam,
    But I am safe and live at home.

[Illustration]




LOOKING FORWARD


      When I am grown to man's estate
    I shall be very proud and great,
      And tell the other girls and boys
    Not to meddle with my toys.




MY SHADOW


    I have a little shadow that goes in and out with me,
    And what can be the use of him is more than I can see.
    He is very, very like me, from the heels up to the head;
    And I see him jump before me, when I jump into my bed.

    The funniest thing about him is the way he likes to grow--
    Not at all like proper children, which is always very slow;
    For he sometimes shoots up taller, like an india-rubber ball,
    And he sometimes gets so little that there's none of him at all.

[Illustration: "_I have a little shadow._"]

    He hasn't got a notion of how children ought to play,
    And can only make a fool of me in every sort of way.
    He stays so close beside me, he's a coward you can see;
    I'd think shame to stick to nursie as that shadow sticks to me!

    One morning, very early, before the sun was up,
    I 'rose and found the shining dew on every buttercup;
    But my lazy little shadow, like an arrant sleepy head,
    Had stayed at home behind me and was fast asleep in bed.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




THE SUN'S TRAVELS


    The sun is not a-bed when I
    At night upon my pillow lie;
    Still round the earth his way he takes,
    And morning after morning makes.

    While here at home in shining day,
    We round the sunny garden play,
    Each little Indian sleepy-head
    Is being kissed and put to bed.

    And when at eve I rise from tea,
    Day dawns beyond the Atlantic Sea;
    And all the children in the West
    Are getting up and being dressed.

[Illustration]




LOOKING-GLASS RIVER


    Smooth it slides upon its travel,
    Here a wimple, there a gleam--
        O the clean gravel!
        O the smooth stream!

    Sailing blossoms, silver fishes,
      Paven pools as clear as air--
        How a child wishes
        To live down there!

[Illustration]

    We can see our colored faces
      Floating on the shaken pool
        Down in cool places,
        Dim and very cool;

    Till a wind or water wrinkle,
      Dipping marten, plumping trout,
        Spreads in a twinkle
        And blots all out.

    See the rings pursue each other;
      All below grows black as night,
        Just as if mother
        Had blown out the light!

    Patience, children, just a minute--
      See the spreading circles die;
        The stream and all in it
        Will clear by-and-by.

[Illustration]




THE LAMPLIGHTER


    My tea is nearly ready and the sun has left the sky;
    It's time to take the window to see Leerie going by;
    For every night at teatime and before you take your seat,
    With lantern and with ladder he comes posting up the street.

    Now Tom would be a driver and Maria go to sea,
    And my papa's a banker and as rich as he can be;
    But I, when I am stronger and can choose what I'm to do,
    O Leerie, I'll go round at night and light the lamps with you!

    For we are very lucky, with a lamp before the door,
    And Leerie stops to light it as he lights so many more;
    And O, before you hurry by with ladder and with light,
    O Leerie, see a little child and nod to him to-night!

[Illustration]




SINGING


    Of speckled eggs the birdie sings
      And nests among the trees;
    The sailor sings of ropes and things
      In ships upon the seas.

    The children sing in far Japan,
      The children sing in Spain;
    The organ with the organ man
      Is singing in the rain.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




TRAVEL


    I should like to rise and go
    Where the golden apples grow;--
    Where below another sky
    Parrot Islands anchored lie,
    And, watched by cockatoos and goats,
    Lonely Crusoes building boats;--
    Where in sunshine reaching out
    Eastern cities, miles about,
    Are with mosque and minaret
    Among sandy gardens set,
    And the rich goods from near and far
    Hang for sale in the bazaar;--
    Where the Great Wall round China goes,
    And on one side the desert blows,
    And with bell and voice and drum,
    Cities on the other hum;--
    Where are forests, hot as fire,
    Wide as England, tall as a spire,
    Full of apes and cocoa-nuts
    And the negro hunters' huts;--
    Where the knotty crocodile
    Lies and blinks in the Nile,
    And the red flamingo flies
    Hunting fish before his eyes;--
    Where in jungles, near and far,
    Man-devouring tigers are,
    Lying close and giving ear
    Lest the hunt be drawing near,
    Or a comer-by be seen
    Swinging in a palanquin;--
    Where among the desert sands
    Some deserted city stands,
    All its children, sweep and prince,
    Grown to manhood ages since,
    Not a foot in street or house,
    Not a stir of child or mouse,
    And when kindly falls the night,
    In all the town no spark of light.
    There I'll come when I'm a man
    With a camel caravan;
    Light a fire in the gloom
    Of some dusty dining room;
    See the pictures on the walls,
    Heroes, fights and festivals
    And in a corner find the toys
    Of the old Egyptian boys.

[Illustration]




MY BED IS A BOAT

[Illustration: _My bed is like a little boat_]


    My bed is like a little boat;
      Nurse helps me in when I embark;
    She girds me in my sailor's coat
      And starts me in the dark.

    At night, I go on board and say
      Good night to all my friends on shore;
    I shut my eyes and sail away
      And see and hear no more.

    And sometimes things to bed I take,
      As prudent sailors have to do;
    Perhaps a slice of wedding-cake,
      Perhaps a toy or two.

    All night across the dark we steer:
      But when the day returns at last
    Safe in my room, beside the pier,
      I find my vessel fast.

[Illustration]




KEEPSAKE MILL


    Over the borders, a sin without pardon,
      Breaking the branches and crawling below,
    Out through the breach in the wall of the garden,
      Down by the banks of the river, we go.

    Here is the mill with the humming of thunder,
      Here is the weir with the wonder of foam,
    Here is the sluice with the race running under--
      Marvelous places, though handy to home!

    Sounds of the village grow stiller and stiller,
      Stiller the note of the birds on the hill;
    Dusty and dim are the eyes of the miller,
      Deaf are his ears with the moil of the mill.

    Years may go by, and the wheel in the river
      Wheel as it wheels for us, children, to-day.
    Wheel and keep roaring and foaming for ever
      Long after all of the boys are away.

    Home from the Indies and home from the ocean,
      Heroes and soldiers we all shall come home;
    Still we shall find the old mill wheel in motion,
      Turning and churning that river to foam.

    You with the bean that I gave when we quarreled,
      I with your marble of Saturday last,
    Honored and old and all gaily apparelled,
      Here we shall meet and remember the past.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




THE UNSEEN PLAYMATE


    When children are playing alone on the green,
    In comes the playmate that never was seen.
    When children are happy and lonely and good,
    The Friend of the Children comes out of the wood.

    Nobody heard him and nobody saw,
    His is a picture you never could draw,
    But he's sure to be present, abroad or at home,
    When children are happy and playing alone.

    He lies in the laurels, he runs on the grass,
    He sings when you tinkle the musical glass;
    Whene'er you are happy and cannot tell why,
    The Friend of the Children is sure to be by!

    He loves to be little, he hates to be big,
    'Tis he that inhabits the caves that you dig;
    'Tis he when you play with your soldiers of tin
    That sides with the Frenchman and never can win.

    'Tis he, when at night you go off to your bed,
    Bids you go to your sleep and not trouble your head;
    For wherever they're lying, in cupboard or shelf,
    'Tis he will take care of your playthings himself.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




MY SHIP AND I.


    O it's I that am the captain of a tidy little ship,
      Of a ship that goes a-sailing on the pond;
    And my ship it keeps a-turning all around and all about;
    But when I'm a little older, I shall find the secret out
      How to send my vessel sailing on beyond.

    For I mean to grow as little as the dolly at the helm,
      And the dolly I intend to come alive;
    And with him beside to help me, it's a-sailing I shall go,
    It's a-sailing on the water, when the jolly breezes blow
    And the vessel goes a divie-divie dive.

    O it's then you'll see me sailing through the rushes and the reeds,
      And you'll hear the water singing at the prow;
    For beside the dolly sailor, I'm to voyage and explore,
    To land upon the island where no dolly was before,
      And to fire the penny cannon in the bow.

[Illustration]




THE WIND


    I saw you toss the kites on high
    And blow the birds about the sky;
    And all around I heard you pass,
    Like ladies' skirts across the grass--
      O wind, a-blowing all day long!
      O wind, that sings so loud a song!

    I saw the different things you did,
    But always you yourself you hid.
    I felt you push, I heard you call,
    I could not see yourself at all--
      O wind, a-blowing all day long,
      O wind, that sings so loud a song!

    O you that are so strong and cold,
    O blower, are you young or old?
    Are you a beast of field and tree,
    Or just a stronger child than me?
      O wind, a-blowing all day long,
      O wind, that sings so loud a song!

[Illustration: "_I felt you push, I heard you call._"]

[Illustration]




A GOOD BOY


    I woke before the morning, I was happy all the day,
    I never said an ugly word, but smiled and stuck to play.

    And now at last the sun is going down behind the wood,
    And I am very happy, for I know that I've been good.

    My bed is waiting cool and fresh, with linen smooth and fair,
    And I must off to sleepsin-by, and not forget my prayer.

    I know that, till to-morrow I shall see the sun arise,
    No ugly dream shall fright my mind, no ugly sight my eyes.

    But slumber hold me tightly, till I waken in the dawn,
    And hear the thrushes singing in the lilacs round the lawn.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




GOOD AND BAD CHILDREN


    Children, you are very little,
    And your bones are very brittle;
    If you would grow great and stately,
    You must try to walk sedately.

    You must still be bright and quiet,
    And content with simple diet;
    And remain, through all bewild'ring,
    Innocent and honest children.

    Happy hearts and happy faces,
    Happy play in grassy places--
    That was how, in ancient ages,
    Children grew to kings and sages.

    But the unkind and the unruly,
    And the sort who eat unduly,
    They must never hope for glory--
    Theirs is quite a different story!

    Cruel children, crying babies,
    All grow up as geese and gabies,
    Hated, as their age increases,
    By their nephews and their nieces.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




PICTURE-BOOKS IN WINTER


    Summer fading, winter comes--
    Frosty mornings, tingling thumbs,
    Window robins, winter rooks,
    And the picture story-books.

    Water now is turned to stone
    Nurse and I can walk upon;
    Still we find the flowing brooks
    In the picture story-books.

    All the pretty things put by
    Wait upon the childrens' eye,
    Sheep and shepherds, trees and crooks,
    In the picture story-books.

    We may see how all things are,
    Seas and cities, near and far,
    And the flying fairies' looks,
    In the picture story-books.

    How am I to sing your praise,
    Happy chimney-corner days,
    Sitting safe in nursery nooks,
    Reading picture story-books?

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




THE SWING


    How do you like to go up in a swing,
      Up in the air so blue?
    Oh, I do think it the pleasantest thing
      Ever a child can do!

    Up in the air and over the wall,
      Till I can see so wide,
    Rivers and trees and cattle and all
      Over the countryside--

    Till I look down on the garden green,
      Down on the roof so brown--
    Up in the air I go flying again,
      Up in the air and down!

[Illustration]




A THOUGHT


    It is very nice to think
     The world is full of meat and drink
    With little children saying grace
     In every Christian kind of place.




ARMIES IN THE FIRE


    The lamps now glitter down the street;
    Faintly sound the falling feet
    And the blue even slowly falls
    About the garden trees and walls.

    Now in the falling of the gloom
    The red fire paints the empty room;
    And warmly on the roof it looks,
    And flickers on the backs of books.

    Armies march by tower and spire
    Of cities blazing, in the fire;--
    Till as I gaze with staring eyes,
    The armies fade, the lustre dies.

    Then once again the glow returns;
    Again the phantom city burns;
    And down the red-hot valley, lo!
    The phantom armies marching go!

    Blinking embers, tell me true
    Where are those armies marching to,
    And what the burning city is
    That crumbles in your furnaces!

[Illustration]




MY KINGDOM


    Down by a shining water well
    I found a very little dell,
        No higher than my head.
    The heather and the gorse about
    In summer bloom were coming out,
        Some yellow and some red.

    I called the little pool a sea;
    The little hills were big to me;
        For I am very small.
    I made a boat, I made a town,
    I searched the caverns up and down,
        And named them one and all.

    And all about was mine, I said,
    The little sparrows overhead,
        The little minnows, too.
    This was the world and I was king;
    For me the bees came by to sing,
        For me the swallows flew.

    I played there were no deeper seas,
    Nor any wider plains than these,
        Nor other kings than me.
    At last I heard my mother call
    Out from the house at evenfall,
        To call me home to tea.

    And I must rise and leave my dell,
    And leave my dimpled water well,
        And leave my heather blooms.
    Alas! and as my home I neared,
    How very big my nurse appeared,
        How great and cool the rooms!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




SHADOW MARCH


    All round the house is the jet-black night;
        It stares through the window-pane;
    It crawls in the corners, hiding from the light,
        And it moves with the moving flame.

    Now my little heart goes a-beating like a drum,
        With the breath of Bogie in my hair,
    And all round the candle the crooked shadows come,
        And go marching along up the stair.

    The shadow of the balusters, the shadow of the lamp,
        The shadow of the child that goes to bed--
    All the wicked shadows coming, tramp, tramp, tramp,
        With the black night overhead.

[Illustration]




WINTER-TIME


    Late lies the wintry sun a-bed,
    A frosty, fiery sleepy-head;
    Blinks but an hour or two; and then,
    A blood-red orange, sets again.

    Before the stars have left the skies,
    At morning in the dark I rise;
    And shivering in my nakedness,
    By the cold candle, bathe and dress.

    Close by the jolly fire I sit
    To warm my frozen bones a bit;
    Or with a reindeer-sled, explore
    The colder countries round the door.

    When to go out, my nurse doth wrap
    Me in my comforter and cap;
    The cold wind burns my face and blows
    Its frosty pepper up my nose.

    Black are my steps on silver sod;
    Thick blows my frosty breath abroad;
    And tree and house, and hill and lake,
    Are frosted like a wedding-cake.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




THE LITTLE LAND


    When at home alone I sit
    And am very tired of it,
    I have just to shut my eyes
    To go sailing through the skies--
    To go sailing far away
    To the pleasant Land of play;
    To the fairy land afar
    Where the Little People are;
    Where the clover-tops are trees,
    And the rain-pools are the seas,
    And the leaves like little ships
    Sail about on tiny trips;
    And above the daisy tree
        Through the grasses,
    High o'erhead the Bumble Bee
        Hums and passes.

    In that forest to and fro
    I can wander, I can go;
    See the spider and the fly,
    And the ants go marching by
    Carrying parcels with their feet
    Down the green and grassy street.
    I can in the sorrel sit
    Where the ladybird alit.
    I can climb the jointed grass;
        And on high
    See the greater swallows pass
        In the sky,
    And the round sun rolling by
    Heeding no such things as I.

    Through that forest I can pass
    Till, as in a looking-glass,
    Humming fly and daisy tree
    And my tiny self I see,
    Painted very clear and neat
    On the rain-pool at my feet.

    Should a leaflet come to land
    Drifting near to where I stand,
    Straight I'll board that tiny boat
    Round the rain-pool sea to float.

    Little thoughtful creatures sit
    On the grassy coasts of it;
    Little things with lovely eyes
    See me sailing with surprise.
    Some are clad in armour green--
    (These have sure to battle been!)--
    Some are pied with ev'ry hue,
    Black and crimson, gold and blue;
    Some have wings and swift are gone;
    But they all look kindly on.

    When my eyes I once again
    Open, and see all things plain;
    High bare walls, great bare floor;
    Great big knobs on drawer and door;
    Great big people perched on chairs,
    Stitching tucks and mending tears,
    Each a hill that I could climb,
    And talking nonsense all the time--
       O dear me,
       That I could be
    A sailor on the rain-pool sea,
    A climber in, the clover tree,
    And just come back, a sleepy-head,
    Late at night to go to bed.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




IN PORT


    Last, to the chamber where I lie
    My fearful footsteps patter nigh,
    And come from out the cold and gloom
    Into my warm and cheerful room.

    There, safe arrived, we turn about
    To keep the coming shadows out,
    And close the happy door at last
    On all the perils that we passed.

    Then, when mamma goes by to bed,
    She shall come in with tip-toe tread,
    And see me lying warm and fast
    And in the Land of Nod at last.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




NIGHT AND DAY


    When the golden day is done,
      Through the closing portal,
    Child and garden, flower and sun,
      Vanish all things mortal.

    As the blinding showers fall,
      As the rays diminish,
    Under evening's cloak they all
      Roll away and vanish.

    Garden darkened, daisy shut,
      Child in bed, they slumber--
    Glow-worm in the highway rut,
      Mice among the lumber.

    In the darkness houses shine,
        Parents move with candles
    Till on all, the night divine
        Turns the bedroom handles.

    Till at last the day begins
        In the east a-breaking,
    In the hedges and the whins
        Sleeping birds a-waking.

    In the darkness shapes of things,
        Houses, trees and hedges,
    Clearer grow; and sparrow's wings
        Beat on window ledges.

    These shall wake the yawning maid,
        She the door shall open--
    Finding dew on garden glade
        And the morning broken.

    There my garden grows again
        Green and rosy painted,
    As at eve behind the pane
        From my eyes it fainted.

    Just as it was shut away,
        Toy-like, in the even,
    Here I see it glow with day
        Under glowing heaven.

    Every path and every plot,
        Every bush of roses,
    Every blue forget-me-not
        Where the dew reposes.

    'Up! they cry, 'the day is come
        On the smiling valleys;
    We have beat the morning drum;
        Playmate, join your allies!'

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




NEST EGGS


    Birds all the sunny day
      Flutter and quarrel
    Here in the arbor-like
      Tent of the laurel.

    Here in the fork
      The brown nest is seated;
    Four little blue eggs
      The mother keeps heated.

    While we stand watching her,
      Staring like gabies,
    Safe in each egg are the
      Bird's little babies.

    Soon the frail eggs they shall
      Chip, and upspringing
    Make all the April woods
      Merry with singing.

    Younger than we are,
      O children, and frailer,
    Soon in blue air they'll be,
      Singer and sailor.

    We, so much older,
      Taller and stronger,
    We shall look down on the
      Birdies no longer.

    They shall go flying
      With musical speeches
    High over head in the
      Tops of the beeches.

    In spite of our wisdom
      And sensible talking,
    We on our feet must go
      Plodding and walking.

[Illustration]




THE FLOWERS


    All the names I know from nurse:
    Gardener's garters, Shepherd's purse,
    Bachelor's buttons, Lady's smock,
    And the Lady Hollyhock.

    Fairy places, fairy things,
    Fairy woods where the wild bee wings,
    Tiny trees for tiny dames--
    These must all be fairy names!

    Tiny woods below whose boughs
    Shady fairies weave a house;
    Tiny tree-tops, rose or thyme,
    Where the braver fairies climb!

    Fair are grown-up people's trees,
    But the fairest woods are these;
    Where if I were not so tall,
    I should live for good and all.

[Illustration]




FROM A RAILWAY CARRIAGE


    Faster than fairies, faster than witches,
    Bridges and houses, hedges and ditches;
    And charging along like troops in a battle,
    All through the meadows the horses and cattle:
    All of the sights of the hill and the plain
    Fly as thick as driving rain;
    And ever again in the wink of an eye,
    Painted stations whistle by.

    Here is a child who clambers and scrambles,
    All by himself and gathering brambles;
    Here is a tramp who stands and gazes;
    And there is the green for stringing the daisies!
    Here is a cart run away in the road
    Lumping along with man and load;
    And here is a mill and there is a river,
    Each a glimpse and gone forever!

[Illustration]




MY TREASURES


    These nuts, that I keep in the back of the nest
    Where all my lead soldiers are lying at rest,
    Were gathered in autumn by nursie and me
    In a wood with a well by the side of the sea.

    This whistle we made (and how clearly it sounds!)
    By the side of a field at the end of the grounds.
    Of a branch of a plane, with a knife of my own,
    It was nursie who made it, and nursie alone!

    The stone, with the white and the yellow and grey,
    We discovered I cannot tell _how_ far away;
    And I carried it back although weary and cold,
    For though father denies it, I'm sure it is gold.

    But of all of my treasures the last is the king,
    For there's very few children possess such a thing;
    And that is a chisel, both handle and blade,
    Which a man who was really a carpenter made.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




BLOCK CITY


    What are you able to build with your blocks?
    Castles and palaces, temples and docks.
    Rain may keep raining and others go roam,
    But I can be happy and building at home.

    Let the sofa be mountains, the carpet be sea,
    There I'll establish a city for me:
    A kirk and a mill and a palace beside,
    And a harbor as well where my vessels may ride.

    Great is the palace with pillar and wall,
    A sort of a tower on the top of it all,
    And steps coming down in an orderly way
    To where my toy vessels lay safe in the bay.

    This one is sailing and that one is moored:
    Hark to the song of the sailors on board!
    And see the steps of my palace, the kings
    Coming and going with presents and things!

    Now I have done with it, down let it go!
    All in a moment the town is laid low.
    Block upon block lying scattered and free,
    What is there left of my town by the sea?

    Yet as I saw it, I see it again,
    The kirk and the palace, the ships and the men
    And as long as I live and where'er I may be,
    I'll always remember my town by the sea.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




THE GARDENER


    The gardener does not love to talk,
    He makes me keep the gravel walk;
    And when he puts his tools away,
    He locks the door and takes the key.

    Away behind the currant row
    Where no one else but cook may go,
    Far in the plots, I see him dig,
    Old and serious, brown and big.

    He digs the flowers, green, red and blue,
    Nor wishes to be spoken to.
    He digs the flowers and cuts the hay,
    And never seems to want to play.

    Silly gardener! summer goes,
    And winter comes with pinching toes,
    When in the garden bare and brown
    You must lay your barrow down.

    Well now, and while the summer stays,
    To profit by these garden days,
    O how much wiser you would be
    To play at Indian wars with me!

[Illustration]



THE DOG AND THE WOLF.


A wolf there was, whose scanty fare
Had made his person lean and spare;
A dog there was, so amply fed,
His sides were plump and sleek; 'tis said
The wolf once met this prosp'rous cur,
And thus began: "Your servant, sir;
I'm pleased to see you look so well,
Though how it is I cannot tell;
I have not broke my fast to-day;
Nor have I, I'm concern'd to say,
One bone in store or expectation,
And that I call a great vexation."

"Indeed it is," the dog replied:
"I know no ill so great beside;
But if you do not like to be
So poorly fed, come live with me."
"Agreed," rejoined the wolf, "I'll go:
But pray, what work am I to do?"
"Oh, guard the house, and do not fail
To bark at thieves, and wag your tail."

So off they jogg'd, and soon arrived
At where the friendly mastiff lived.
"Well," said the wolf, "I can't deny
You have a better house than I."
"Not so," the other then replied,
"If you with me will hence abide."
"Oh," said the wolf, "how kind you are!
But what d'ye call _that_, hanging there?
Is it an iron chain, or what?"
"Friend," said the dog, "I quite forgot
To mention that; sometimes, you see,
They hook that little chain to _me_;
But it is only meant to keep
Us dogs from walking in our sleep,
And should you wear it, you would find,
It's nothing that you need to mind."

"I'll take your word," the wolf replied.
"It's truth by me shall ne'er be tried;
I'll have my liberty again,
And you your collar and your chain."


MORAL.

Our neighbors sometimes seem to be
A vast deal better off than we;
Yet seldom 'tis they really are,
Since _they_ have troubles too to bear,
Which, if the truth were really known,
Are quite as grievous as our own.




[Illustration]

THE HERDSMAN.


A herdsman, who lived at a time and a place
Which, should you not know, is but little disgrace,
Discover'd one morning, on counting his stock,
That a sheep had been stolen that night from the flock.

"Oh, I wish I had caught ye, _whoever ye be_
I'd have soon let you know, I'd have soon let ye see,
What he had to expect," said the herdsman, "I trow;
But I've thought of a scheme that will trouble you now."

So what did he do, sir, but put up a board,
Describing the thief, and proposed a reward
Of a lamb, to the man who would give information
Concerning the thief, and his true designation.

The project succeeded; for soon there applied
A certain near neighbor, with others beside.
"But tell me the thief," said the herdsman, "at least;"
"Come hither," said they, "and we'll show you the beast!"

"The _beast_!" said the rustic, who thought he should die on
The spot, when he found that the thief was a lion!
"Ill luck to my hurry, what now shall I do?
I promised a lamb to detect you 'tis true;
But now I'd consent _all_ my substance to pay,
If I could but with safety get out of your way."


MORAL.

Silly people ask things that would ruin, if sent;
They demand them in haste, and at leisure repent.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE BOYS AND THE FROGS.


Some boys, beside a pond or lake,
Were playing once at _duck and drake?_
When, doubtless to their heart's content,
Volleys of stones were quickly sent.

But there were some (there will be such)
Who did not seem amused so much;
These were the frogs, to whom the game,
In point of sport was not the same.

For scarce a stone arrived, 'tis said,
But gave some frog a broken head;
And scores in less than half an hour,
Perished beneath the dreadful shower.

At last, said one, "You silly folks, I say,
Do fling your stones another way;
Though _sport_ to _you_, to throw them thus,
Remember, pray, 'tis _death_ to us!"


MORAL.

From hence this moral may be learn'd:
Let play _be play_ to _all concern'd_.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE COCK AND THE JEWEL.


A cock there was: a sage was he
  (If Esop we may trust,)
Who wish'd to make a meal, you see,
  As other sages must.

With this intent, as heretofore,
  When on the hunt for grain;
Our hero scratch'd the litter o'er
  With all his might and main.

But scarce a minute had he scratch'd,
  When, to his great surprise,
A gem, with golden chain attach'd,
  He saw with both his eyes.

"Alack!" quoth he, "what have we here?
  A diamond, I protest!
Which lords and ladies buy so dear,
  And hold in such request.

"But one good barley-corn to me
  Has more intrinsic worth
Than all the pearls now in the sea,
  Or gold now in the earth."


MORAL.

The moral here, in Esop's mind,
  Was this, there's not a doubt:
Things have _most_ value, which we find
  We _cannot_ do without.




[Illustration]

THE MAN AND THE LION.


A man and a lion once had a dispute,
Which was reckon'd the greatest, the man or the brute;
The lion discoursed on his side at some length,
And greatly enlarged on his courage and strength.

The man, one would think, had enough to reply
On _his_ side the question, which none could deny;
But like many others who make a pretence,
He talk'd perfect nonsense, and thought it good sense.

"So," says he, "don't be prating,--look yonder, I pray,
At that sculpture of marble, now what will you say?
The lion is vanquished; but as for the man
He is striding upon him; deny it who can."

"But pray," said the lion, "who sculptured that stone?"
"One of _us_," said the man, "I must candidly own."
"But when _we_ are sculptors," the other replied,
"You will then on the man see the _lion_ astride."


MORAL.

The man might have added, if he had been wise,
"But a beast _cannot_ sculpture a stone, _if he tries_."
_That_ sufficiently shows where the difference lies.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FOX AND THE CRANE.


"I certainly think," said a fox to a crane,
"That face, ma'am of yours is remarkably plain;
That beak that you wear is so frightful a feature,
It makes you appear a most singular creature."
The crane, much offended at what she had heard,
March'd off at full speed, without saying a word:
"Oh dear!" said the fox, "Mrs. Crane, I protest
You misunderstand me, 'twas only a jest."
"Come, don't be affronted--stay with me and dine;
You know very well 'tis this temper of mine
To say such odd things to my intimate friends;
But you know that poor Reynard no mischief intends."
So the crane thought it best not to break with him quite,
But to view his remarks in a good-natured light.
So she put on as pleasant a face as she could
When he ask'd her to dine, and replied that she would.
But alas! she perceived that his jokes were not over,
When Reynard removed from the victuals its cover
'Twas neither game, butcher's meat, chicken, not fish;
But plain gravy-soup, in a broad shallow dish.
Now this the fox lapp'd with his tongue very quick,
While the crane could scarce dip in the point of her beak;
"You make a poor dinner," said he to his guest;
"Oh, dear! by no means," said the bird, "I protest."
But the crane ask'd the fox on a subsequent day,
When nothing, it seems, for their dinner had they
But some minced meat served up in a narrow-neck'd jar;
Too long, and narrow, for Reynard by far.
"You make a poor dinner, I fear," said the bird;
"Why, I think," said the fox, "'twould be very absurd
To deny what you say, yet I cannot complain,
But confess, though a fox, that I'm matched by a crane."


MORAL.

Cunning folks who play tricks which good manners condemn,
Often find their own tricks play'd again upon them.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE TRAVELLER AND THE SATYR.


A luckless wight, in winter slow,
Travelling once a forest through
Cold and hungry, tired and wet,
Began in words like these to fret:
"Oh, what a sharp inclement day!
And what a dismal, dreary way!
No friendly cot, no cheering fields,
No food this howling forest yields;
I've nought in store or expectation!
There's nought before me but starvation."

"Not quite so bad," a voice replied;
Quickly the traveller turned aside,
And saw the satyr of the wood,
Who close beside his dwelling stood.
"Here is my cave hard by," said he,
"Walk in, you're welcome, pray be free."

The traveller did not hesitate,
Hoping for something good to eat,
But follow'd to his heart's content,
Blowing his finger as he went.

"Pray," said the satyr, "may I know
For what you blow your fingers so?"

"What! need you," said the man, "be told?--
To _warm_ my fingers, 'numb'd with cold."

"Indeed!" was all his host replied,
Intent some pottage to provide,
Which heated well, with spice infused,
Was to his shivering guest produced:

So hot it was, as Esop sung,
It made our traveller scald his tongue;
And wishing not again to do it,
Our hero could not wait, but blew it.

"What?" said his host, in accent rough,
"Is not your pottage hot enough?"
"Yes," said the man, "full well I know it,
'Tis far too hot, that's why I blow it."
"You artful villain! do you so?"
His host replied, with angry brow;
"My cave shall not a moment hold
A man that blows both hot and cold!
By none but rogues can that be done,
You double-dealing wretch, begone!"


MORAL.

The traveller scarce deserved such wrath,
For warming fingers--cooling broth.
No statutes old or new forbid it,
Although with the same mouth he did it:
Yet this beware of old and young,
What Esop meant--a _double tongue_;
Which flatters now with civil clack,
And slanders soon behind one's back.




[Illustration]

THE TRAVELLERS AND THE PURSE.


Two friends once were walking in sociable chat,
  When a purse one espied on the ground;
"Oh, see!" said he, (thank my fortune for that,)
  "What a large sum of money I've found!"

"Nay, do not say _I_" said his friend, "for you know
  'Tis but friendship to share it with me;"
"I share it with you," said the other. "How so?
  He who _found_ it the owner should be."

"Be it so," said his friend, "but what sound do I hear?
  'Stop thief!' one is calling to you;
He comes with a constable close in the rear!"
  Said the other, "Oh, what shall we do?"

"Nay, do not say _we_," said his friend, "for you know
  You claimed the sole right to the prize!
And since all the _money_ was taken by you,
  With you the _dishonesty_ lies."


MORAL.

When people are selfish, dishonest, and mean,
Their nature, in dealing, will quickly be seen.




[Illustration]

THE MOUTH AND THE LIMBS.

In days of yore, they say, 'twas then
  When all things spoke their mind;
The arms and legs of certain men,
  To treason felt inclined.

These arms and legs together met,
  As snugly as they could,
With knees and elbows, hands and feet,
  In discontented mood.

Said they, "'Tis neither right nor fair,
  Nor is there any need,
To labor with such toil and care,
  The greedy mouth to feed."

"This we're resolved no more to do,
  Though we so long have done it;"
"Ah!" said the knees and elbows too,
  "And we are bent upon it."

"I," said the tongue, "may surely speak,
  Since I his inmate am;
And for his vices while you seek,
  His virtues I'll proclaim.

"You say the mouth embezzles all,
  The fruit of your exertion;
But I on this assembly call
  To prove the base assertion.

"The food which you with labor gain,
  He too with labor chews;
Nor does he long the food retain,
  But gives it for your use.

"But he his office has resign'd
  To whom you may prefer;
He begs you therefore now to find
  Some other treasurer."

"Well, be it so," they all replied;
  "His wish shall be obeyed;
We think the hands may now be tried
  As treasurers in his stead."

The hands with joy to this agreed,
  And all to them was paid;
But they the treasure kept indeed,
  And no disbursements made.

Once more the clam'rous members met,
  A lean and hungry throng;
When all allowed, from head to feet,
  That what they'd done was wrong.

To take his office once again,
  The mouth they all implored;
Who soon accepted it, and then
  Health was again restored.


MORAL.

This tale for state affairs is meant,
  Which we need not discuss;
At present we will be content,
  To find a moral thus:

The mouth has claims of large amount,
  From arms, legs, feet, and hands;
But let them not, on that account,
 Pay _more_ than it demands.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE HARE AND THE TORTOISE.


Said a hare to a tortoise, "Good sir, what a while
  You have been only crossing the way;
Why I really believe that to go half a mile,
  You must travel two nights and a day."

"I am very contented," the creature replied,
  "Though I walk but a tortoise's pace,
But if you think proper the point to decide,
  We will run half a mile in a race."

"Very good," said the hare; said the tortoise, "Proceed,
  And the fox shall decide who has won,"
Then the hare started off with incredible speed;
  But the tortoise walk'd leisurely on.

"Come tortoise, friend tortoise, walk on," said the hare,
  "Well, I shall stay here for my dinner;
Why, 'twill take you a month, at that rate, to get there,
  Then how can you hope to be winner?"

But the tortoise could hear not a word that she said
  For he was far distant behind;
So the hare felt secured while at leisure she fed,
  And took a sound nap when she dined.

So at last this slow walker came up with the hare,
  And there fast asleep did he spy her;
And he cunningly crept with such caution and care,
  That she woke not, although he pass'd by her.

"Well now," thought the hare, when she open'd her eyes,
  "For the race,--and I soon shall have done it;"
But who can describe her chagrin and surprise,
  When she found that the _tortoise_ had won it!


MORAL.

Thus plain plodding people, we often shall find,
Will leave hasty confident people behind.




[Illustration]

THE MILKMAID.


A milkmaid, who poized a full pail on her head,
Thus mused on her prospects in life, it is said:
"Let's see--I should think that this milk will procure
One hundred good eggs, or fourscore to be sure.

"Well then--stop a bit,--it must not be forgotten,
Some of these may be broken, and some may be rotten;
But if twenty for accidents should be detach'd,
It will leave me just sixty sound eggs to hatch'd.

"Well, sixty sound eggs--no; sound chickens, I mean;
Of these some may die--we'll suppose seventeen--
Seventeen!--not so many--say ten at the most,
Which will leave fifty chickens to boil or to roast.

"But then there's their barley; how much will they need?
Why they take but one grain at a time when they feed,
So that's a mere trifle; now then let us see,
At a fair market price, how much money there'll be?

"Six shillings a pair--five--four--three-and-six,
To prevent all mistakes, that low price I will fix;
Now what will that make? fifty chickens, I said,
Fifty times three-and-sixpence--_I'll ask brother Ned_.

"Oh! but stop--three-and-sixpence a _pair_ I must sell 'em;
Well, a pair is a couple--now then let us tell 'em;
A couple in fifty will go--(my poor brain!)
Why just a score times, and five pair will remain.

"Twenty-five pair of fowls--now how shameful it is,
That I can't reckon up as much money as this!
Well, there's no use in trying; so let's give a guess;
I will say twenty pounds, and _it can't be no less_.

"Twenty pounds, I am certain, will buy me a cow,
Thirty geese, and two turkeys--eight pigs and a sow;
Now if these turn out well, at the end of the year,
I shall fill both my pockets with guineas 'tis clear.

"Then I'll bid that old tumble-down hovel good-bye;
My mother she'll scold, and my sisters they'll cry:
But I won't care a crow's egg for all they can say;
I sha'n't go to stop with such beggars as they!"

But forgetting her burden, when this she had said,
The maid superciliously toss'd up her head
When alas! for her prospects--the milk pail descended!
And so all her schemes for the future were ended.


MORAL.

This moral, I think, may be safely attach'd:
Reckon not on your chickens before they are hatch'd.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE LARK AND HER YOUNG ONES.


A lark who had her nest conceal'd,
Says Esop, in a barley field;
Began, as harvest time drew near,
The reaping of the corn to fear;
Afraid they would her nest descry,
Before her tender brood could fly.
She charged them therefore every day,
Before for food she flew away,
To watch the farmer in her stead,
And listen well to all he said.

It chanced one day, she scarce was gone,
Ere the farmer came and his son.
The farmer well his field survey'd,
And sundry observations made;
At last, "I'll tell you what," said he,
"This corn is fit to cut, I see;
But we our neighbor's help must borrow,
So tell them we begin to-morrow."

Just after this the lark returned,
When from her brood this news she learned.
"Ah! dearest mother," then, said they,
"Pray, let us all begone to-day."

"My dears," said she, "you need not fret,
I shall not be uneasy yet;
For if he waits for neighbor's aid,
The business long will be delay'd."

At dawn she left her nest once more,
And charged her young ones as before.

At five the farmer came again,
And waited for his friends in vain,
"Well," said the man, "I fancy, son,
These _friends_ we can't depend upon;
To-morrow early, mind you go,
And let our own _relations_ know."

Again the lark approach'd her nest,
When round her all her young ones press'd,
And told their mother, word for word,
The fresh intelligence they heard.

"Ah, children, be at ease," said she
"We're safe another day, I see;
For these _relations_, you will find,
Just like his _friends_, will stay behind."

At dawn again the lark withdrew,
And did again her charge renew.

Once more the farmer early came,
And found the case was just the same.
The day advanced, the sun was high;
But not a single help drew nigh.
Then said the farmer, "Hark ye, son--
I see this job will not be done,
While thus we wait for friends and neighbors;
So you and I'll commence our labors:
To-morrow early, we'll begin
_Ourselves_, and get our harvest in."

"Now," said the lark, when this she heard,
"Our movement must not be deferr'd;
For if the farmer and his son
Themselves begin, 'twill soon be done."

The morrow proved the lark was right;
For all was cut and housed by night.


MORAL.

Hence, while we wait for other's aid,
Our business needs must be delay'd;
Which might be done with half the labor
'Twould take to go and call a neighbor.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE PHILOSOPHER AND THE
ACORN.


A philosopher, proud of his wit and his reason,
Sat him under an oak in a hot summer season.
On the oak grew an acorn or two, it is said:
On the ground grew a pumpkin as big as his head.

Thought the sage, "What's the reason this oak is so strong
A few acorns to bear that are scarce an inch long;
While this poor feeble plant has a weight to sustain,
Which had much better hang on the tree, it is plain?"

But just at the time the philosopher spoke
An acorn dropp'd down on his head from the oak;
Then, said he, who just now thought _his_ plan was so clever,
"I am glad that _this_ was not a pumpkin, however."


MORAL.

The sage would no doubt have looked grievously dull,
Had a pumpkin descended with force on his scull.
Of his folly then let us in future beware,
And believe that _such_ matters _are best as they are_:
Leave the manners and customs of oak trees alone,
Of acorns, and pumpkins--and look to our own.




[Illustration]

THE WOLF AND THE CRANE.


A wolf, once forgetting the size of his swallow,
  Tried to pass a large marrow-bone through it.
"Oh dear," said the beast, thinking death was to follow,
  "How careless and stupid to do it!"

His mouth was propp'd open by means of the bone,
  And his breathing was greatly impeded,
But a crane coming up, he contrived to make known
  What kind of assistance he needed.

"How d'ye do?" said the bird; said the beast, "Very ill,
  For a bone has gone down the wrong way;
But if you can extract it by means of your bill,
  The service I'll amply repay."

Thought the crane, "I'm no surgeon: yet all must agree,
  That my bill will make excellent _forceps_;
And as for the money, I do not now see
  Why I need refuse taking his worship's."

Said the bird, "It's agreed;" said his patient, "Proceed,
  And take the bone hence, I beseech;"
Which, after awhile, and with infinite toil,
  The crane at last managed to reach.

"Thank my stars!" said the beast, from his terrors released,
  "Thank you _too_, sir," said he to the bird;
"Alas!" said the crane, "is this all I'm to gain,
  I was waiting the promised reward."

Said the wolf, "You forget, I've contracted no debt,
  Since the service was _rendered by me_;
Your head I releas'd from the jaws of a beast,
  And now you're demanding a fee!"


MORAL.

Give your help to a wolf, should he beg for your aid,
But you must not expect when you've done to be paid.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE DOG AND THE SHADOW.


A dog growing thinner, for want of a dinner,
  Once purloined him a joint from a tray,
"How happy I am, with this shoulder of lamb,"
  Thought the cur as he trotted away.

But the way that he took, lay just over a brook,
  Which he found it was needful to cross;
So without more ado, he plunged in to go through,
  Not dreaming of danger or loss.

But what should appear, in this rivulet clear,
  As he thought upon coolest reflection,
But a cur like himself, who with ill-gotten pelf,
  Had run off in that very direction.

Thought the dog, _a propos_! but that instant let go
  (As he snatched at this same water-spaniel)
The piece he possess'd:--so with hunger distress'd
  He slowly walk'd home to his kennel.


MORAL.

Hence, when we are needy, don't let us be greedy,
  (Excuse me this line of digression,)
Lest in snatching at all, like the dog, we let fall
  The good that we have in possession.




[Illustration]

THE TRAVELLERS AND THE BEAR.


Two trav'llers one morning set out from their home,
It might be from Sparta, from Athens, or Rome;
It matters not which, but agreed, it is said,
Should danger arise, to lend each other aid.

But scarce was this done, when forth rushing amain,
Sprung a bear from a wood tow'rds these travellers twain;
Then one of our heroes, with courage immense,
Climb'd into a tree, and there found his defence.

The other fell flat to the earth with dread,
When the bear came and smelt him, and thought he was dead;
So not liking the carcase, away trotted he,
When straight our brave hero descended the tree.

Then, said he, "I can't think what the bear could propose,
When so close to your ear, he presented his nose."
"Why this," said the other, "he told me to do,
To beware for the future of cowards like you."


MORAL.

Those people who run from their friends in distress,
Will be left when _themselves_ are in trouble, I guess.




[Illustration]

THE FROGS AND THE BULL.


A Bull once treading near a bog,
Displaced the entrails of a frog,
  Who near his foot did trust them;
In fact, so great was the contusion,
And made of his inwards such confusion,
  No art could re-adjust them.

It chanced that some who saw his fate,
Did to a friend the deed relate,
  With croakings, groans, and hisses;
"The beast," said they, "in size excell'd
All other beasts," their neighbors swell'd,
  And ask'd, "as large as this is!"

"Oh, larger far than that," said they,
"Do not attempt it, madam, pray;"
  But still the frog distended,
And said, "I'll burst, but I'll exceed,"
She tried, and burst herself indeed!
  And so the matter ended.


MORAL.

Should you with pride inflate and swell,
As did the frog: then who can tell!
Your sides may crack, as has been shown,
And we with laughing crack our own.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE COUNCIL OF MICE.


Some mice who saw fit, once a quarter to meet,
  To arrange the concerns of their city;
Thought it needful to choose, as is common with us,
  First a chairman, and then a committee.

When the chairman was seated, the object he stated
  For which at that meeting they sat:
Which was, it should seem, the concerting a scheme
  To defeat the designs of the cat.

Dr. Nibblecheese rose, and said, "I would propose,
  To this cat we fasten a bell;
He who likes what I've said, now will hold up his head;
  He who does not, may hold up his tail."

So out of respect, they their noses erect,
  Except one who the order reversed;
_Ayes_, all then but one, but yet nought could be done,
  Until he had his reasons rehearsed.

"I shall not," said this mouse, "waste the time of the house,
  In long arguments; since, as I view it,
The scheme would succeed without doubt, if indeed
  We could find any mouse who would _do it_."

"Hear! hear!" was the cry, and "no bells we will try,
  Unless you will fasten them on;"
So quite broken-hearted the members departed,
  For the bill was rejected _nem. con._


MORAL.

Then be not too hasty in giving advice,
Lest your schemes should remind of the council of mice;
You had better delay your opinion a year,
Than put forth a ridiculous one, it is clear.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE WOLF AND THE LAMB.


A wolf and lamb once chanced to meet,
Beside a stream, whose waters sweet
Brought various kinds of beasts together,
When dry and sultry was the weather;
Now though the wolf came there to _drink_,
Of _eating_, he began to think,
As soon as near the lamb he came,
And straight resolved to kill the same;
Yet thought it better to begin,
With threat'ning words and angry mien.

"And so," said he, to him below,
"How dare you stir the water so?
Making the cool refreshing flood,
As brown as beer, and thick as mud."

"Sir," said the lamb, "that cannot be,
The water flows _from you to me_;
So, 'tis impossible, I think,
That what I do can spoil your drink."

"I say it does, you saucy puss:
How dare you contradict me thus;
But more than this, you idle clack,
You rail'd at me behind my back
Two years ago, I have been told;"
"How so? I'm not a twelvemonth old,"
The lamb replied; "So I suspect
Your honor is not quite correct."

"If not, your mother it must be,
And that comes all the same to me,"
Rejoined the wolf--who waited not
But kill'd and ate him on the spot.


MORAL.

Some, like the wolf, adopt the plan,
To make a quarrel _if they can_;
But none with you can hold dispute,
If you're _determined_ to be mute;
For sure this proverb must be true,
That ev'ry _quarrel_ must have _two_.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE BEASTS IN PARTNERSHIP.


This _firm_ once existed, I'd have you to know,
Messrs. Lion, Wolf, Tiger, Fox, Leopard, and Co.;
These in business were join'd, and of course 'twas implied,
They their stocks should unite, and the profits divide.

Now the fable relates, it so happened one day,
That their efforts combined, made a bullock their prey:
But agreed that the Lion should make the division,
And patiently waited the monarch's decision.

"My friends," said the Lion, "I've parted, you see,
The whole into six, which is right, you'll agree;
One part I may claim, as my share in the trade."
"Oh, take it and welcome," they all of them said.

"I claim too the second; since no one denies
'Twas my courage and conduct that gained you the prize:
And for the third; that you know is a fine
To the Lord of the manor, and therefore is mine."

"Hey day!" said the fox; "Stop a bit," said the lion,
"I have not quite done," said he, fixing his eye on
The other three parts; "you are fully aware,
That, as _tribute_, one other part comes to my share.

"And I think 'twould be prudent, the next to put by
Somewhere safe in _my_ den for a future supply,
And the other, you know, will but barely suffice,
To pay those expenses which always arise."

"If this be the case," said the fox, "I discern
That the business to _us_ is a losing concern;
If so to withdraw, I should think would be best;"
"Oh, yes! let us break up the firm," said the rest;

And so:--for you may not have heard of it yet,--
It was quickly dissolved, though not in _the gazette_.


MORAL.

Some folks in their dealings, like him in the fable,
Will take others' shares, if they think they are able;
But let them not wonder who act in this way,
If they find none will join them in business or play.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE LION AND THE MOUSE.


A lion, with the heat oppress'd,
One day composed himself to rest;
But whilst he dozed, as he intended,
A mouse his royal back ascended;
Nor thought of harm as Esop tells,
Mistaking him for something else,
And travelled over him, and round him,
And might have left him as he found him,
Had he not, tremble when you hear,
Tried to explore the monarch's ear!
Who straightway woke with wrath immense,
And shook his head to cast him thence.
"You rascal, what are you about,"
Said he, when he had turned him out.
"I'll teach you soon," the lion said,
"To make a mouse-hole in my head!"
So saying, he prepared his foot,
To crush the trembling tiny brute;
But he, the mouse, with tearful eye,
Implored the lion's clemency,
Who thought it best at least to give
His little pris'ner a reprieve.
'Twas nearly twelve months after this,
The lion chanced his way to miss;
When pressing forward: heedless yet,
He got entangled in a net.
With dreadful rage he stamp'd and tore,
And straight commenced a lordly roar;
When the poor mouse who heard the noise,
Attended, for she knew his voice.
Then what the lion's utmost strength
Could not effect, she did at length:
With patient labor she applied
Her teeth, the net-work to divide;
And so at last forth issued he,
A _lion_, by a mouse set free.


MORAL.

Few are so small or weak, I guess,
But may assist us in distress;
Nor shall we ever, if we're wise,
The meanest, or the least, despise.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE JEALOUS ASS.


"There lived," says friend Esop, "some ages ago,
An ass who had feelings acute, you must know;
This ass to be jealous, felt strongly inclined,
And for reasons which follow, felt hurt in his mind."

It seems that his master, as I understand,
Had a favorite dog which he fed from his hand.
Nay, the dog was permitted to jump on his knee:
An honor that vex'd our poor donkey to see.

"Now," thought he, "what's the reason, I cannot see any,
That I have no favors, while he has so many?
If all this is got by just wagging his tail,
Why _I_ have got one, which I'll wag without fail."

So the donkey resolved to try what he could do
And, determined unusual attentions to show,
When his master was dining, came into the room.
"Good sir!" said his friends, "why your donkey is come!"

"Indeed!" said their host, great astonishment showing,
When he saw the ass come, while his tail was a-going;
But who can describe his dismay or fear,
When the donkey rear'd up, and bray'd loud in his ear!

"You rascal get down,--John, Edward, or Dick!
Where are you? make haste, and come here with a stick."
The man roared--the guests laugh'd--the dog bark'd--the bell rung:
Coals, poker, and tongs, at the donkey were flung,

Till the blows and the kicks, with combined demonstration,
Convinced him that this was a bad speculation;
So, mortified deeply, his footsteps retrod he,
Hurt much in his mind, but still more in his body.


MORAL.

So some silly children, as stupid as may be,
Will cry for indulgences fit for a baby.
Had they enter'd the room while the donkey withdrew,
They'd have seen their own folly and punishment too:
Let them think of this fable, and what came to pass;
Nor forget, he who play'd this fine game was _an ass_.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE TOWN AND COUNTRY MICE.


A plain, but honest, country mouse,
Residing in a miller's house;
Once, on a time, invited down
An old acquaintance of the town:
And soon he brought his dainties out;
The best he had there's not a doubt.
A dish of oatmeal and green peas,
With half a candle, and some cheese;
Some beans, and if I'm not mistaken,
A charming piece of Yorkshire bacon.
And then to show he was expert
In such affairs, a fine dessert
Was next produced, all which he press'd,
With rustic freedom, on his guest.

But he, the city epicure,
This homely fare could not endure
Indeed he scarcely broke his fast
By what he took, but said, at last,
"Old crony, now, I'll tell you what:
I don't admire this lonely spot;
This dreadful, dismal, dirty hole,
Seems more adapted for a mole
Than 'tis for you; Oh! could you see
_My_ residence, how charm'd you'd be.
Instead of bringing up your brood
In wind, and wet, and solitude,
Come bring them all at once to town,
We'll make a courtier of a clown.
I think that, for your children's sake,
'Tis proper my advice to take."
"Well," said his host, "I can but try,
And so poor quiet hole good bye!"

Then off they jogg'd for many a mile,
Talking of splendid things the while;
At last, in town, they all arrived--
Found where the city mouse had lived--
Entered at midnight through a crack,
And rested from their tedious track.

"Now," said the city mouse, "I'll show
What kind of fare I've brought you to:"
On which he led the rustic mice
Into a larder, snug and nice,
Where ev'ry thing a mouse could relish,
Did ev'ry shelf and nook embellish.

"Now is not this to be preferr'd
To your green peas?" "Upon my word,
It is," the country mouse replied,
"All this must needs the point decide."

Scarce had they spoke these words, when, lo!
A tribe of servants hasten'd through,
And also two gigantic cats,
Who spied our country mouse and brats.
Then, by a timely exit, she
Just saved herself and family.

"Oh, ask me not," said she in haste,
"Your tempting dainties more to taste;
I much prefer my homely peas,
To splendid dangers such as these."


MORAL.

Then let not those begin to grumble,
Whose lot is safe, though poor and humble;
Nor envy him who better fares,
But for each good, has twenty cares.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FOX AND THE CROW.


Crows feed upon worms: yet an author affirms
  Cheshire cheese they will get if they're able;
"For," said he, "I well know, one unprincipled crow
  Once purloined a large piece from my table."

Then away darted she, to the shade of a tree,
  To deposit the booty within her;
But it never occurr'd to the mind of the bird,
  That a _fox_ was to have it for dinner.

"How many a slip, 'twixt the cup and the lip!"
  (Excuse me, I pray, the digression,)
Said a fox to himself, "I can share in the pelf,
  If I act with my usual discretion."

So said he, "Is it you? pray, ma'am, how do you do,
  I have long wish'd to pay you a visit;
For a twelvemonth has pass'd, since I heard of you last
  Which is not very neighborly, is it?

"But, dear madam," said he, "you are dining, I see;
  On that subject I'd ask your advice;
Pray, ma'am, now can you tell, where provisions they sell,
  That are not an extravagant price?

"Bread and meat are so dear, and have been for a year,
  That poor people can scarcely endure it,
And then _cheese is so high_, that such beggars as I,
  _Till it falls_, cannot hope to procure it."

But the ill-behaved bird did not utter a word,
  Still intent on retaining her plunder;
Thought the fox, "It should seem, this is not a good scheme,
  What else can I think of, I wonder?"

So said Reynard once more, "I ne'er knew it before,
  But your feathers are whiter than snow is!"
But thought he, when he'd said it, "she'll ne'er give it credit,
  For what bird is so black as a crow is."
"But I'm told that your voice is a horrible noise,
  Which they say of all sounds is the oddest;
But then this is absurd, for it never is heard,
  Since you are so excessively modest."

If _that's_ all thought the crow, "I will soon let you know
  That all doubt on that score may be ended;"
Then most laughingly piped, the poor silly biped,
  When quickly her dinner descended!


MORAL.

If this _biped_ had not been so vain and conceited,
She would not by the fox quite so soon have been cheated;
But perhaps the term _biped_ to some may be new:
'Tis a two-legged creature--perchance it is _you_.




[Illustration]

THE LION AND THE ECHO.


A lion, bravest of the wood,
Whose title undisputed stood,
As o'er the wide domains he prowl'd,
And in pursuit of booty growl'd,
An Echo from a distant cave
Regrowl'd, articulately grave:
His majesty, surprised, began
To think at first it was a man;
But on reflection sage, he found
It was too like a lion's sound.
"Whose voice is that which growls at mine?"
His highness ask'd. Says Echo, "Mine!"
"Thine!" says the Lion: "Who art thou?"
Echo as stern cried, "Who art thou?"
"Know I'm a lion, hear and tremble!"
Replied the king. Cried Echo, "Tremble!"
"Come forth," says Lion; "show thyself."
Laconic Echo answered, "Elf."
"Elf, durst thou call me, vile pretender?"
Echo as loud replies, "Pretender!"
At this, as jealous of his reign,
He growl'd in rage; she growl'd again.
Incensed the more, he chafed and foam'd,
And round the spacious forest roam'd
To find the rival of his throne,
Who durst with him dispute the crown.

A fox, who listen'd all the while,
Address'd the monarch with a smile:
"My liege, most humbly I make bold,
Though truth may not be always told,
That this same phantom which you hear,
That so alarms your royal ear,
Is not a rival of your throne:
The voice and fears are all your own."
Imaginary terrors scare
A timorous soul with real fear;
Nay, even the wise and brave are cow'd
By apprehensions from the crowd:
A frog a lion may disharm,
And yet how causeless the alarm!

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE PAPER KITE.


Once on a time, a paper kite
Was mounted to a wondrous height;
Where, giddy with its elevation,
It thus express'd self-admiration:
"See how yon crowds of gazing people
Admire my flight above the steeple;
How would they wonder, if they knew
All that a kite, like me, could do?
Were I but free, I'd take a flight,
And pierce the clouds beyond their sight.
But, ah! like a poor prisoner bound,
My string confines me near the ground.
I'd brave the eagle's towering wing,
Might I but fly without a string."
It tugg'd and pull'd, while thus it spoke,
To break the string--at last it broke!
Deprived at once of all its stay,
In vain it tried to soar away:
Unable its own weight to bear,
It flutter'd downward through the air;
Unable its own course to guide,
The winds soon plunged it in the tide.
Oh! foolish kite, thou hadst no wing,
How could'st thou fly without a string?
My heart replied, "Oh, Lord, I see
How much the kite resembles me!
Forgetful that by thee I stand,
Impatient of thy ruling hand;
How oft I've wish'd to break the lines
Thy wisdom for my lot assigns!
How oft indulged a vain desire
For something more or something higher!
And but for grace and love divine,
A fall thus dreadful had been mine."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE RATS AND THE CHEESE.


If bees a government maintain,
Why may not rats of stronger brain
And greater power, as well bethought
By Machiavelian axioms taught?
And so they are, for thus of late
It happened in the rats' free state.
Their prince (his subjects more to please)
Had got a mighty Cheshire cheese,
In which his ministers of state
Might live in plenty and grow great.
A powerful party straight combined,
And their united forces join'd,
To bring their measures into play,
For none so loyal were as they;
And none such patriots, to support
As well the country as the court.
No sooner were those Dons admitted
But (all those wondrous virtues quitted)
They all the speediest means devise
To raise themselves and families.
Another party well observing
These pamper'd were, while they were starving,
Their ministry brought in disgrace,
Expelled them and supplied their place;
These on just principles were known
The true supporters of the throne,
And for the subjects liberty
They'd (marry would they) freely die;
But being well fix'd in their station,
Regardless of their prince and nation,
Just like the others, all their skill
Was how they might their paunches fill.
On this a rat, not quite so blind
In state intrigues as human kind,
But of more honor, thus replied:
"Confound ye all on either side;
All your contentions are but these,
Whose arts shall best secure the cheese."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

AURELIA AND THE SPIDER.


The muslin torn, from tears of grief
In vain Aurelia sought relief;
In sighs and plaints she pass'd the day;
The tatter'd frock neglected lay:
While busied at the weaving trade,
A spider heard the sighing maid
And kindly stopping in a trice,
Thus offer'd (gratis) her advice:
"Turn, little girl! behold in me
A stimulus to industry
Compare your woes, my dear, with mine,
Then tell me who should most repine:
This morning, ere you left your room,
The chambermaid's remorseless broom
In one sad moment that destroy'd,
To build which thousands were employ'd!
The shock was great; but as my life
I saved in the relentless strife,
I knew lamenting was in vain,
So patient went to work again.
By constant work, a day or more,
My little mansion did restore:
And if each tear which you have shed
Had been a needle-full of thread,
If every sigh of sad despair
Had been a stitch of proper care,
Closed would have been the luckless rent,
Nor thus the day have been misspent."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE REDBREAST AND THE
SPARROW.


Perch'd on a tree, hard by a rural cot,
A redbreast singing cheer'd the humble spot;
A sparrow on the thatch in critic spleen
Thus took occasion to reprove the strain:
"Dost thou," cried he, "thou dull dejected thing,
Presume to emulate the birds of spring?
Can thy weak warbling dare approach the thrush
Or blackbird's accents in the hawthorn bush?
Or with the lark dost thou poor mimic, vie,
Or nightingale's unequal'd melody?
These other birds possessing twice thy fire
Have been content in silence to admire."
"With candor judge," the minstrel bird replied,
"Nor deem my efforts arrogance or pride;
Think not ambition makes me act this part,
I only sing because I love the art:
I envy not, indeed, but much revere
Those birds whose fame the test of skill will bear;
I feel no hope arising to surpass,
Nor with their charming songs my own to class;
Far other aims incite my humble strain.
Then surely I your pardon may obtain,
While I attempt the rural vale to move
By imitating of the lays I love."




[Illustration]

THE POET AND THE COBWEBS.


A bard, whose pen had brought him more
Of fame than of the precious ore,
In Grub Street garret oft reposed
With eyes contemplative half-closed.
Cobwebs around in antique glory,
Chief of his household inventory,
Suggested to his roving brains
Amazing multitude of scenes.

"This batch," said he, "of murder-spinners
Who toil their brains out for their dinners,
Though base, too long unsung has lain
By kindred brethren of Duck Lane,
Unknowing that its little plan
Holds all the cyclopedia of man.

"This one, whose radiant thread
Is every where from centre spread,
Like orbs in planetary skies,
Enclosed with rounds of various size,
This curious frame I aptly call
A cobweb mathematical.

"In secret holes, that dirty line,
Where never sun presumes to shine,
With straws, and filth, and time beset,
Where all is fish that comes to net,
That musty film, the Muse supposes
Figures the web of Virtuosos.

"You, where the gaudy insect sings,
Are cobwebs of the court of kings,
Where gilded threads conceal the gin.
And broider'd knaves are caught therein.

"That holly, fix'd 'mid mildew'd panes,
Of cheerless Christmas the remains
(I only dream and sing its cheer,
My Muse keeps Lent throughout the year)
That holly, labor'd o'er and o'er,
Is cobwebs of the lawyer's lore,
Where frisky flies, on gambols borne,
Find out the snare, when lost, undone.

"These dangling webs, with dirt and age,
Display their tatter'd equipage,
So like the antiquarian crew,
That those in every thread I view.

"Here death disseminated lies,
In shrunk anatomies of flies;
And amputated limbs declare
What vermin lie in ambush there:
A baited lure with drugg'd perdition,
A cobweb, not misnamed physician.

"Those plaited webs, long pendent there,
Of sable bards a subtle snare,
Of all-collective disposition,
Which holds like gout of inquisition,
May well denominated be,
The trap-webs of divinity."

But whilst our bard described the scene,
A bee stole through a broken pane;
Fraught with the sweets of every flower,
In taking his adventurous tour,
Is there entrapp'd. Exert thy sting,
Bold bee, and liberate thy wing!
The poet kindly dropp'd his pen,
And freed the captive from its den;
Then musing o'er his empty table,
Forgot the moral of his fable.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE EPICURE AND THE PHYSICIAN.


Two hundred years ago, or more,
An heir possess'd a miser's store;
Rejoiced to find his father dead,
Till then on thrifty viands fed;
Unnumber'd dishes crown'd his board,
With each unwholesome trifle stored.
He ate--and long'd to eat again,
But sigh'd for appetite in vain:
His food, though dress'd a thousand ways,
Had lost its late accustom'd praise;
He relish'd nothing--sickly grew--
Yet long'd to taste of something new.
It chanced in this disastrous case,
One morn betimes he join'd the chase:
Swift o'er the plain the hunters fly,
Each echoing out a joyous cry;
A forest next before them lay;
He, left behind, mistook his way,
And long alone bewildered rode,
He found a peasant's poor abode;
But fasting kept, from six to four,
Felt hunger, long unfelt before;
The friendly swain this want supplied,
And Joan some eggs and bacon fried.
Not dainty now, the squire in haste
Fell to, and praised their savory taste;
Nay, said his meal had such a _gout_
He ne'er in tarts and olios knew.
Rejoiced to think he'd found a dish,
That crown'd his long unanswer'd wish,
With gold his thankful host he paid,
Who guides him back from whence he stray'd;
But ere they part, so well he dined,
His rustic host the squire enjoin'd
To send him home next day a stock
Of those same eggs and charming hock.
He hoped this dish of savory meat
Would prove that still 'twas bliss to eat;
But, ah! he found, like all the rest,
These eggs were tasteless things at best;
The bacon not a dog would touch,
So rank--he never tasted such!
He sent express to fetch the clown,
And thus address'd him with a frown:
"These eggs, this bacon, that you sent,
For Christian food were never meant;
As soon I'll think the moon's a cheese,
As those you dress'd the same with these.
Little I thought"--"Sir," says the peasant,
"I'm glad your worship is so pleasant:
You joke, I'm sure: for I can swear,
The same the fowls that laid them are!
And know as well that all the bacon
From one the self-same flitch was taken:
The air, indeed, about our green
Is known to make the stomach keen."
"Is that the case?" the squire replied;
"That air shall be directly tried."
He gave command--a house he hired,
And down he goes with hope inspired,
And takes his cooks--a favorite train;
But still they ply their art in vain.
Perhaps 'twas riding did the feat:
He rides,--but still he cannot eat.
At last a friend, to physic bred,
Perceived his case, and thus he said:
"Be ruled by me, you soon shall eat,
With hearty gust, the plainest meat;
A pint of milk each rising morn,
Procure from cow of sable horn;
Shake in three drops of morning dew
From twig of ever-verdant yew;
It must by your own hand be done,
Your face turn'd westward from the sun.
With this, ere half an hour is past,
Well crumb'd with biscuit, break your fast;
Which done, from food (or all is vain)
For twice three hours and one abstain--
Then dine on one substantial dish,
If plainly dress'd, of flesh or fish."
Grave look'd the doctor as he spake--
The squire concludes th' advice to take,
And, cheated into temperance, found
The bliss his former luxury drown'd.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FROGS DESIRING A KING.


Athens in freedom flourish'd long,
'Till licence seized the giddy throng.
Just laws grown weary to obey,
They sunk to tyranny a prey.
Pisistratus, though mild he sway'd,
Their turbulence had not allay'd.
Whilst they were cursing in despair,
The yoke they had not learn'd to bear,
Esop, their danger to describe,
Rehears'd this fable to the tribe:

"Some frogs, like you, of freedom tired,
From Jupiter a king desir'd:
One that should execute the law,
And keep the dissolute in awe.
Jove laugh'd, and threw them down a log,
That thundering fell and shook the bog.
Amongst the reeds the tremblers fled:
Till one more bold advanc'd his head,
And saw the monarch of the flood
Lying half smothered in the mud.
He calls the croaking race around:
"A wooden king!" the banks resound.
Fear once remov'd they swim about him,
And gibe and jeer and mock and flout him;
And messengers to Jove depute,
Effectively to grant their suit.
A hungry stork he sent them then,
Who soon had swallow'd half the fen.
Their woes scarce daring to reveal,
To Mercury by night they steal,
And beg him to entreat of Jove
The direful tyrant to remove.
'No,' says the God, 'they chose their lot,
And must abide what they have got:'
So you, my friends, had best go home
In peace, lest something worse should come."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE HARE AND THE BRAMBLE.


A hare, closely pursued, thought it prudent and meet
To a bramble for refuge awhile to retreat;
He enter'd the covert, but entering, found
That briers and thorns did on all sides abound;
And that, though he was safe, yet he never could stir,
But his sides they would wound, or would tear off his fur:
He shrugg'd up his shoulders, but would not complain:
"To repine at small evils," quoth puss, "is in vain:
That no bliss can be perfect, I very well knew--
But from the same source good and evil doth flow--
And full sorely my skin though these briers may rend,
Yet they keep off the dogs, and my life will defend:
For the sake of the good, then, let evil be borne--
For each sweet has its bitter, each bramble its thorn."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE HORSE AND THE STAG.


Within a certain pasture,
  There lived some creatures wild.
The sky was blue, the grass was green,
  The air was very mild.

Now though this field was large and fine,
  They could not live in love:
But for the grass in one large spot
  A horse and stag once strove.

The stag was strongest in the strife,
  And so the battle won;
And from the field the horse was sent
  And with chagrin was stung.

So to the man the horse applied,
  For help, the stag to beat,
And so effectual was his help,
  The stag had to retreat.

But when to go away he tried,
  The man held to him fast:
"Now that you are of use," he cried,
  "You'll serve me to the last."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE CAT AND THE OLD MOUSE.


The mice o'errun a certain house--
In every spot was found a mouse.
So for a cat the mistress went,
And to the kitchen puss was sent.

With diligence were many caught,
And eaten up. The mice were taught
That they some cunning must devise
To keep the prey from pussy's eyes.

So on a certain shelf so high,
To reach which puss in vain might try,
There all the mice together got,
And they resolved to leave it not.

So pussy found that to eat them,
She must resort to stratagem.
And holding fast by means of pegs,
She hung suspended by the legs.

And downward she then hung her head,
And looked as though she were quite dead--
And thus she sought to cheat the mice,
And from their dwellings them entice.

A cunning mouse, well "up to trap,"
On pussy her two eyes did clap.
"Aha!" she cried, "puss are you there?
Within your reach, I would not dare--
Not e'en though it were proved by law,
That your whole skin were stuffed with straw."




[Illustration]

THE FOX AND THE VIZOR MASK.


A fox while walking out one day,
Into a toy shop chanced to stray;
Among the toys that stood arrayed,
A vizor mask was there displayed,
With rosy cheeks, complexion fair,
And ruby lips and auburn hair,
And eyes of blue, and Grecian nose;
And many beauties to disclose,
It seemed made. The fox, with sighs,
Gazed on. "Ah, ah!" he cries,
"Look at this head it naught contains,
It has rare beauty, but no brains."


MORAL.

The accomplished beau, in air and mien how blest.
His hat well fashioned, and his hair well dress'd--
But still undress'd within: to give him brains
Exceeds his hatter's or his barber's pains.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE GOOSE THAT LAID GOLDEN
EGGS.


A man once had a goose I'm told,
Which had laid each day an egg of gold.
Now if this treasure were well spent,
It might make any one content.
But no! this man desired more;
And though of eggs he had rich store;
He thought one day the goose he'd kill,
And then at once his pockets fill.
So chasing goosey round and round,
She soon was caught and firmly bound
He opened her from neck to tail
And then his folly did bewail.
For not a single egg was there,
And thus he lost this treasure rare.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FOX AND THE GRAPES.


A fox once took it in his pate,
To go beyond a garden gate,
To see if there grew on the trees,
Some food his hunger to appease.
So in he went and there he spied
Some grapes. To reach them hard he tried.
Now they were large and luscious too,
Quite purple, and beautiful to view.
So up he jumps with many a bound,
Until exhausted to the ground,
He falls. The grapes hang o'er his head,
In clusters large, "Well! well!" he said,
"You are but green, and hard as stone,
And all my time away is thrown.
I'll leave you to your solitude,
You are not fit to make me food."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE MOUSE AND THE WEASEL.


A very thin and hungry mouse,
  Into a granary stole,
Where stood a basket full of grain,
  In which was a small hole.

After much squeezing he got in,
  And there he ate his fill;
But when he tried to issue out,
  The hole seemed smaller still.

A weasel who stood looking on,
  Cried out in sneering tone,
"You can't come out, my little dear,
  Until you've smaller grown.

"You were half-starved when you crept in,
  And now you are quite stout;
So cease to eat until you can,
  As you got in, get out."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE MISER AND HIS TREASURE.


  In a retired spot,
  A miser had got
A very large treasure in store.
  And it was his delight,
  Each morn and each night,
To count it and add to it more.

  He had made the hole deep,
  And he thought none would peep,
To find out his secret retreat.
  But a servant so sly,
  His master did spy,
And thought that his cunning he'd beat.

  So one dark winter night,
  He took out his light,
And to the field hastened away;
  And he laughed in his sleeve,
  To think how 'twould grieve
His master to miss it next day.

  And indeed the distress
  Of his lord you may guess,
For words can't describe it, I'm sure.
  He tore out his hair,
  Clasp'd his hands in despair
And cried he was ruined and poor.

  A man passing by,
  His grief chanced to spy;
And told him, "'tis useless to mourn.
  You can look at the hole,
  To solace your soul,
Although all the money is gone."




[Illustration]

THE JACKDAW AND THE PEACOCKS.


Thus Esop has the folly shown,
To build on merits not your own.

A jackdaw, empty, pert and vain,
Who held his equals in disdain,
One day some beauteous feathers found,
Left by a peacock on the ground.
When in the gaudy plumage dress'd,
The shallow thing his fortune bless'd;
With stately gesture strode along,
And boldly join'd the peacock throng;
Who, his impertinence to pay,
First stripp'd him, and then chas'd away.
The crest-fall'n coxcomb homeward sneaks,
And his forsaken comrades seeks;
Where'er he comes, with scorn they leave him,
And not a jackdaw will receive him.
Says one he had disdain'd, at last,
"Such as thou art, thou mightst have pass'd,
And hadst not now been cast behind,
The scorn and scandal of thy kind."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE SPARROW AND THE HARE.


Who dares another's ills deride,
Had best against his own provide.
An eagle pouncing on a hare,
With piercing cries puss rends the air;
When a pert sparrow from a tree,
Insulted thus her misery:
"Ho, ho! poor puss, thy boasted speed
Has failed thee, then, in time of need!"
Scarce had she spoke, when, like an arrow,
A vulture darted on the sparrow.
Ere the poor hare resign'd her breath,
"This sight," she cried, "consoles in death
--That thou, who hast my woes derided,
My last of miseries hast divided!"




[Illustration]

THE ASS AND THE LION.


Vain boasters credit may surprise,
Till known; who knows them will despise.

A lion once a hunting took
An ass, and hid him in a nook.
To drive the forest made him bray,
That he might seize the passing prey.
Long-ears set up such horrid cries,
That every creature trembling flies;
The lion, practised in his trade,
Had soon abundant carnage made;
Satiate with spoil, the ass he calls,
And bid him cease his hideous brawls.
The king he found with slaughter weary,
Surrounded by his noble quarry,
And, puffed with self-importance, said:
"Sir, to some purpose I have bray'd!"
"No ass more famously could do,"
The lion says, "but thee I knew,
Or I might have been frightened too."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE STAG AND THE FOUNTAIN.


That good from bad men rarely know,
This apologue may serve to show:

A stag upon a fountain's side,
Beheld his branching horns with pride;
While of his spindle-shanks asham'd,
Their disproportioned form he blam'd.
Sudden he hears the hunter's cries,
And to the forest nimbly flies.
The woods receive their well-known guest.
His tangled horns, his feet arrest;
The hounds approach, and seize their prey;
Who, dying, thus was heard to say:
"Wretch that I am! too late I learn,
How little we the truth discern!
What would have saved me, I despis'd,
And what has been my ruin, priz'd!"

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE EAGLE, THE CAT, AND THE
SOW.


Her nest on high an eagle made
Lower a cat her kittens laid;
And at the bottom of the tree
A sow dispos'd her progeny.
Vile puss to gain her wicked ends,
Much love for both of them pretends.
First to the eagle's aerie mounts,
And thus to her false alarms recounts:
"Madam, in truth our dangerous state,
'Tis with reluctance I relate;
But things are really gone so far,
Conceal them I no longer dare.
Night after night the treacherous sow
Our tree has undermined below;
Ere long it cannot choose but fall,
And then she hopes to eat us all."
Successful when she saw her lies,
Down to the bristly sow she hies;
"My worthy neighbor!" crying out,
"I pray you, mind what you're about,
For to a certainty I know,
The eagle waits but till you go,
(The thing with great concern I say,)
To make your little ones her prey."
Suspicious dread when thus inspir'd,
Puss to her hole all day retir'd;
Stealing at night on silent paw,
To stuff her own and kittens' maw.
To stir nor sow nor eagle dare.
What more? fell hunger ends their care;
And long the mischief-making beast
With her base brood on carrion feast.

Learn hence, ye simples, ere too late,
What ills the double-tongued create.




[Illustration]

THE EAGLE, THE RAVEN AND
THE TORTOISE.


Who in their foe united find
Force, art, and a remorseless mind,
Whate'er their strength and prowess be,
To perish stand in jeopardy.

An eagle once a tortoise held,
Safe in his horny house concealed,
Which he in vain essayed to break
With all the fury of his beak.
As with his prey he wing'd the air,
A wily raven ventur'd near:
"Your prize is excellent," says she,
"And if you'll give a share to me,
I know, for all his iron hide,
How we the dainty may divide."
The bargain made, "On yonder wall,
Down," says the raven, "let him fall."
He listen'd to the hoary sinner;
And they on turtle made their dinner.

Thus fraud and force their purpose gain,
And nature fortifies in vain.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FLY AND THE HORSE.


A fly upon a coach-box seated,
With arrogance the horses rated.
"Advance!" cries out the paltry thing,
"Unless you mean to feel my sting."
"Not thee we heed," a horse replied,
"But him whose skilful hand can guide
The rein and whip. We better know
Than thee when we should stop or go."

Thus men without or sense or weight,
Think themselves born to rule the state.




[Illustration]

ESOP AT PLAY.


When an Athenian Esop saw,
Playing with school-boys once at taw,
The man with laughter shook his sides;
Esop the laughter thus derides:
"Of this slack bow before you laid,
The meaning, sprightly sir," he said,
"Explain!" (A crowd had gather'd round.)
Surpris'd, the man no answer found:
He puzzled long, but all his wit
Could on no explanation hit.
The laugh on Esop's side; says he,
"Why you this bow unbended see,
It is because it needs must break,
If always bent; so we must take
Due relaxation, that the mind
Its vigor may when wanted find."

He who in harmless sport employs
A vacant hour, is not unwise.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE OLD PILOT AND THE SAILORS.


To one complaining of his fate,
Esop this fable did relate.

A ship by raging tempests toss'd,
The seamen, giving all for lost,
'Twas who should weep and pray the most.
Grown calm at once the sky and sea,
They shout in joyful extacy.
The pilot, from experience wise,
The giddy crew did thus advise:
"Nor much rejoice, nor over grieve,
But decently what comes receive;
Since good and ill succeed so near,
Meet ill with hope and good with fear."




[Illustration]

THE CRAB AND HER DAUGHTER.


Not what they hear, but what they see,
Will children and domestics be.

A crab one day her daughter chid;
"You never do as you are bid,
Have I not told you o'er and o'er,
That awkward gait to use no more?
Learn, ninny, once for all to know,
Folks forward and not backward go."
"Mamma," says Miss, "how strange you talk!
Have I not learn'd from you to walk?
Were I to move the other way,
How could I follow you I pray?"

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE SUN AND THE WIND.


Phebus and Boreas from on high
Upon the road a traveller spy,
Wearing a cloak for fear of rain.
Says Boreas, "his precaution's vain
'Gainst me, I'll show you for a joke
How soon I'll make him quit his cloak."
"Come on," says Phebus, "let us see
Who best succeeds, or you or me."
The wind to blow so fierce began,
He almost had upset his man;
But still his cloak, for all his roar,
Was wrapp'd more closely than before.
When Boreas what he could had done,
"Now for my trial," says the Sun,
And with his beams so warm'd the air,
The man his mantle could not bear,
But open'd first, then threw aside.

Learn hence, unbending sons of pride
Persuasive manners will prevail,
When menaces and bluster fail.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE TWO POTS.


Forc'd on a stream to make their way,
To pot of brass says pot of clay:
"Since brass is stout and clay is frail,
Pray let us at a distance sail.
Not your intention that I fear
Sir Brass," adds humble Earthenware,
"While the winds leave you to yourself;
But woe betide my ribs of delf,
If it should dash our sides together;
For mine would be the damage, whether
Their force should you or I impel;
To pray proceed, and fare you well."

Learn hence, ye folks of low estate,
To keep due distance from the great.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

HERCULES AND THE CARTER.


His cart bemired, a carter pray'd
To Hercules to come and aid.
"Up!" says the God, "thou lazy dog.
And lift the axle from the bog;
Think'st thou Gods nothing have to do
But listen to such knaves as you?"




[Illustration]

THE ANT AND THE GRASSHOPPER.


From a wise emmet, well sustain'd
On what her industry had gain'd,
A grasshopper some aid desir'd.
"What was his trade?" the ant inquir'd.
"I've none," the grasshopper replied;
"I range the country far and wide,
Singing all day from door to door,
And have no time to form a store."
Shutting her granaries, says the ant,
"No wonder, friend, you are in want;
He who all summer sings, may chance
In winter to be forc'd to dance."

To spend his time in idle song,
The thoughtless grasshopper was wrong;
And not to give a small supply,
The emmet mean and niggardly.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE CROW AND THE PITCHER.


Patience and ingenuity
The want of natural means supply.

A thirsty crow some water found,
But in a vessel so profound,
That with her neck at utmost stretch,
A single drop she could not reach.
Then stones she in the pitcher places,
Which to the top the water raises;
And by this innocent device
Her thirst at leisure satisfies.




[Illustration]

THE ANGLER AND THE LITTLE
FISH.


An angler a small salmon caught,
Who with much earnestness besought
That he would let her go: says she,
"What can you do with such as me!
Next year when grown a little bigger,
I in your bag might make a figure."
The prudent man replied, "No, no;
Into my pouch, though small, you go.
A bird in hand is better far,
Than two that in the bushes are."




[Illustration]

THE FROG AND THE FOX.


Let us our own defects amend,
Ere to guide others we pretend.

A sallow, wrinkl'd, spotted frog,
To turn physician left the bog.
"He every malady could cure,"
He said, "that animals endure."
"First on yourself your science show,"
Says Reynard: "that the world may know
Your skill and knowledge, pray begin
Of those foul spots to clear your skin:
For while you look so sick and pale,
To vend your drugs you'll ne'er prevail."




[Illustration]

THE APE AND HER YOUNG ONES.


An ape had cubs; one much she lov'd,
The other small affection prov'd.
Alarm'd, she hears the hunter's cries;
And catching up her darling flies:
Through fear she stumbled o'er some stones
And broke the little favorite's bones;
The other to her back who clung
Uninjured went with her along.

Mothers, beware! the fondl'd child
By too much tenderness is spoil'd;
While those who hardships have endur'd,
To suffer life are best inur'd.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FIR TREE AND THE THORN.


The lowly and contented state
Is farthest from the wounds of fate.

A fir tree upon a humble thorn
From his high top look'd down with scorn.
"For loftiest fanes we grow," she said,
"Of us the tallest masts are made,
While thou, poor bramble, canst produce
Nothing of ornament or use."
"Great tree," the modest thorn replied,
"When the sharp axe shall pierce your side,
In vain you then may wish to be
Unsought-for, and unknown like me."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE ASS IN THE LION'S SKIN.


Fools may on other fools impose;
The sage their real value knows.

An ass once found a lion's skin,
And rolling up himself therein,
From every fold that he came nigh,
Made flocks, and herds, and shepherds fly.
Ranging the country round, at last
He meets his master where he pass'd,
Who long-ears instantly descries
Through his magnificent disguise:
Laying his cudgel on his side,
"Get home, thou stupid fool," he cried:
"With others for a lion pass;
I know thee for an arrant ass."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE DOG IN THE MANGER.


A mastiff in a stable lay,
Couch'd on a manger full of hay.
When any thing drew near to eat,
He quickly forced it to retreat.
An ox then cried, "detested creature,
How vile is thy malignant nature,
Which will not others let enjoy
That which thou never canst employ!"




[Illustration]

THE STAG AND THE VINE.


A stag pursued with horn and hound
In a thick vineyard shelter found.
Soon as he thought the danger past,
He on the vine began to feast.
The huntsman hears the rustling noise,
And through half-eaten leaves descries
His branching horns, the pack recalls,
And merited the creature falls
To his ingratitude a prey.

Those their protectors who betray,
Unpitying, all the world will see
Consign'd to death and infamy.




[Illustration]

THE MISCHIEVOUS DOG.


Titles and ribands, bought with shame,
Folly and vice but more proclaim.
A man who own'd a vicious dog,
Upon his collar fix'd a log,
Which the vain cur supposed to be
A note of worth and dignity.
A mastiff saw his foolish pride;
"Puppy," indignantly he cried,
"That thing is put about your neck
Your mischievous designs to check;
And to who see you to declare,
Of what a currish race you are."




[Illustration]

THE SICK MAN AND THE PHYSICIAN.


Woe to the land where those who guide,
To please the people's foolish pride,
Persuade them there is nought to dread,
When ruin threatens o'er their head.

A patient, ask'd to tell his pains,
Of thirst and shivering cold complains.
"'Tis very good," the doctor said;
"He has but to remain in bed,
And take the med'cines I shall send,
The thing will soon be at an end."
When next the question was repeated,
The man complain'd he much was heated;
"This," cried the leech, "is better still!"
And thus to each increasing ill,
"That it was going well," he cried,
Till the poor martyr sunk and died.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FARMER AND HIS SONS.


Work, work, my boys, with hand and mind!
Your labors you will fruitful find.

A husbandman, about to die,
Call'd on his children to come nigh:
"I leave," he says, "a small estate,
But wherewithal to make it great:
For know, a treasure it contains,
If you to search will take the pains."
He died. The sons dug all the ground,
And there no hidden treasure found;
But so productive was the soil,
The crop by far o'erpaid the toil.
Says one, when they the corn had sold,
"This treasure 'twas our sire foretold!"

[Illustration:]




[Illustration]

THE SWALLOW AND THE BIRDS.


Those who of guides stand most in need,
Are least inclin'd advice to heed.

A travell'd swallow, learn'd and wise,
To all his feather'd neighbors cries:
"See you yon laborers there below;
What is it, think ye, that they sow?
'Tis hemp, my friends; of which are made
The nets that for us all are laid;
The moment yonder men are gone,
Then pick the seeds up one by one."
The gay inhabitants of air
For his precaution little care.
The seedling sprung; again the swallow
Urges his good advice to follow;
Again his counsel they deride.
The plants full grown, and cut, and dried,
Beaten and spun, the nets were made,
And the unwary birds betray'd,
Regretting, in their hapless fate,
Their incredulity too late.

Learn hence the danger to foresee,
Nor wait for their maturity.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE BOASTING TRAVELLER.


A fellow who abroad had been,
Told marvels he had done and seen:
"When resident at Rhodes," he said,
"A leap of twenty yards he made
Over a barrier ten feet high;
A dozen witnesses were by."
"Come on," says one, at the same table,
"Yon ditch and fence to o'erleap you're able.
They're not, by much, so high or wide;
Here let the experiment be tried.
Suppose yourself at Rhodes, and we
Your faithful witnesses will be."
The man replied, "that he to-day
Was not quite well," and stole away.

Who boast of what they cannot do
Both knavery and folly show.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE OLD WOMAN AND HER MAIDS.


Better known evils to endure,
Than seek by wrong a doubtful cure.

A thrifty dame her maids awoke
At the first crowing of the cock.
They of such early rising tir'd,
To kill the harmless cock conspir'd.
The dame, to hear him crow in wait,
Next morning lay in bed till eight.
But when she knew the trick they had play'd,
She caused a larum to be made,
And rung it daily in their ears
Two hours before the dawn appears.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

INDUSTRY AND SLOTH.


Insidious sloth her object gains,
If but a hearing she obtains.

A youth ask'd why so long in bed?
"I listen to a cause," he said;
"As soon as I unclose my eyes.
First industry excites to rise."
"Up, up," she says, "to meet the sun,
Your task of yesterday's undone!"
"Lie still," cries sloth, "it is not warm,
An hour's more sleep can do no harm;
You will have time your work to do,
And leisure for amusement too."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE SHEPHERD TURNED MERCHANT.


Fair weather sailors, keep at home,
For be assur'd the storm will come.

A shepherd of an inland breed
Brought to the coast his flocks to feed;
The beauty of a summer sea,
A merchant tempted him to be.
He sold his sheep, and with the sale
Purchas'd of dates an ample bale.
He sail'd; a furious tempest rose;
Into the sea his dates he throws;
And swimming from the bark to land,
Arrives half dead upon the strand.
To one, soon afterwards who stood
Pleas'd with the calmness of the flood,
"Aye, aye," the simple shepherd said
"With dates again it would be fed."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE SPENDTHRIFT AND THE
SWALLOW.


A fool who all had thrown away,
When wandering pennyless one day,
Perceived a swallow. "Ho," says he,
"Summer is come at last I see!"
And to a Jew his mantle sold.
Next day it was severely cold:
Starv'd as he walk'd, the bird he found
Frozen to death upon the ground.
"Ah! what a fool was I," he cried,
"When on one swallow I relied!"

Those who too readily believe,
For their credulity may grieve.




[Illustration]

THE EAGLE AND THE CROW.


The wise well know their force to weigh,
Nor what they cannot do, essay.

A carrion crow an eagle saw
Seize on a lamb with beak and claw.
Conceiving he could better do,
He pounces on a well fed ewe;
But he and not the sheep was caught;
For when to fly with it he sought,
His feet entangled in the wool,
The shepherd seiz'd the helpless fool.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE WOLF AND THE SHEPHERD'S
BOY.


In wantonness a shepherd's boy
Alarm'd the neighbor's with his cry;
"The wolf! the wolf!" And when they came,
Of their lost labor made his game.
At last the wolf when there indeed,
His real cries they did not heed;
He and his flock a prey were made,
And for his lies he dearly paid.

Those who are known to have deceiv'd,
When they speak truth, are not believ'd.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FOX WITHOUT A TAIL.


Fashions and modes we often see,
Made to conceal deformity:
Those to whom nature has been kind,
Should leave such fopperies behind.

A fox who in a trap was taken,
Resign'd his brush to save his bacon.
Ashamed that all the world should know
His cunning had been cheated so,
To an assembly of the nation
He made the following oration:
"I oft have thought the tails we wear
A troublesome appendage are;
Where's their utility, I pray?
They serve but to obstruct our way.
Nor ornamental do I find,
To drag this ponderous length behind.
For my part, without more debate,
I move our tails we amputate."
"Please, sir, to show yourself behind,"
(Says one to smoke the jest inclin'd,
And who discovered what it was)
"We there perhaps shall see the cause,
Ere we your prudent counsel take,
Why you this curious motion make?"
His bare posteriors when they found,
Loud laughter shook the benches round;
Nor could the fox without a tail
To introduce the mode prevail.




[Illustration]

THE MEN AND THE OYSTER.


Any partition better make,
Than _all_ the hungry law should take.

By the sea side two travellers found
A fine large oyster on the ground;
His claim each obstinately lays:
"I saw it first," one eager says;
"I pick'd it up," the other cries;
"Mine"--"Mine is certainly the prize."
They talk'd as usual, loud and long;
And more they reason'd, more were wrong;
Till they a neighboring lawyer see
Passing, and mutually agree
To take him for their referee.
With legal dignity of face,
He heard them both relate the case;
"Your claims are good," then gravely said,
"And a brave lawsuit would have made
Which to prefer I cannot tell,
So each of you must take a shell;
And, as the oyster is but one,
That I myself will swallow down;
To stink it otherwise had lain,
And all your cash been spent in vain;
You're cheaply off; go home content;
And faith the fish was excellent."




[Illustration]

THE SHEPHERD AND HIS DOG.


A dog his master so deceiv'd,
He was the best of curs believ'd.
The flock was trusted to his care,
Whene'er the shepherd was not there.
And in the house, a favored guest,
He always fed upon the best.
The treacherous guard his charge betray'd
And on the sheep in secret prey'd.
The master, when the crime was prov'd,
With double indignation mov'd,
About his neck the halter tied
Himself: the dog for mercy cried;
"You let the wolf escape," he said,
"Who much more slaughter oft has made."
"Wretch!" says the man, "the wolf declares
Hostility, and boldly dares;
He has no confidence abused:
But, coward, thou my trust hast used:
Against myself! and on this tree
Without delay shalt hanged be."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE COUNTRYMAN AND THE
JUSTICE.


The law still lends the readiest aid,
When well her ministers are paid.

A countryman, by power oppress'd,
Seeking to have his wrongs redress'd,
Oft to the justice went in vain;
Admittance he could ne'er obtain,
But still was bid again to come;
"Unwell"--"engag'd"--or "not home!"
The wily rustic took a kid
One day, and in a basket hid;
And when he to the house drew near,
Began to pinch him by the ear,
So that the porter, from the hall,
Might hear the little fatling squall;
The man his master's mind who knew,
Open'd the door and let him through.
The shepherd, laughing as he pass'd,
Says to his kid, "Thy cries at last
An audience for my wrongs obtain;
Thy flesh, perhaps, redress will gain."




[Illustration]

THE COCK AND THE FOX.


The world applauds the lucky hit,
When it beholds the biter bit.

A treach'rous fox invited down
A cock, who on a tree had flown.
"Do you not know, my friend," says he,
"Bird, beast, fish, reptile, man agree,
To live henceforth in amity?
Come down and celebrate the day."
"Troth," quoth the cock, "you truly say;
For hounds I see come o'er the dell,
With open mouths, the news to tell."
"Adieu," says Ren. "'Tis best to go;
Those dogs the treaty may not know."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE BLIND MAN AND THE LAME.


Who kind assistance give and take,
Life's arduous journey best will make.

Two men, one blind, the other lame,
To pass a ford together came.
The stream was rapid, and the way
Obliquely thwart the current lay;
To his companion says the blind,
"Yon winding road I ne'er shall find."
"Nor my poor limbs," the lame replied,
"The current's rapid force abide."
"Come," says the blind, "my loins are strong,
I'll bear you on my back along,
While you to guide me give the word;"
And thus they safely cross'd the ford.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE MAN AND THE SERPENT.


There's in the world a cursed race,
Of nature so perverse and base,
If from the gallows you should save,
A dangerous enemy you have.

A countryman a serpent found,
Stiffen'd with frost upon the ground,
And took her home; but when the fire
Began new vigor to inspire,
Swelling her neck with angry eyes,
She fills the cot with hissing cries.
The rustic then his axe did take,
"Is this then the return you make?
Is this your gratitude?" he said,
And knock'd the reptile on the head.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE TWO STREAMS.


Those who display much dash and din,
Have seldom any thing within.

A weary traveller, one day,
Cross'd o'er a river in his way;
Alarm'd to see the foaming tide
Dashing o'er rocks from side to side,
Nevertheless, his course to keep,
He ventur'd in with trembling step;
And found the water neither deep,
Nor footing bad; and got well o'er.
When he had travell'd some leagues more,
He to another river came,
That smoothly flowed, a silent stream:
This he thought easily to pass;
But ere he in the middle was,
He plunged into a gulf profound,
And for his feet no bottom found;
But, forced to swim with all his might,
Got to the shore in piteous plight.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE SOT AND HIS WIFE.


Inveterate sin is seldom cur'd.

A wife had long a sot endur'd,
Who all his time in taverns spent,
While his affairs in ruin went.
Once as insensible he lay,
She dress'd him in a corpse's array,
And with the undertaker's aid,
Into a burying vault convey'd.
The fumes dispersed, the man awakes;
All for reality he takes.
When by the glimmering of a lamp
He saw his mansion drear and damp,
Reflecting how his life had pass'd,
A forced repentance came at last.
The wife, with suited voice and dress,
Presented an infernal mess:
"Good Trap, pray take away your meat;
I have no appetite to eat,"
He cried, "but faith I'm devilish dry:
Can't you a bowl of wine supply?"
The woman, seeing all was vain,
Restor'd him to his casks again:
Consol'd with certainty, that he
Ere long a real corpse must be.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FARMER AND HIS QUARRELSOME
SONS.


Three sons an honest farmer had;
And it so happen'd, ne'er a lad
Could with the other two agree;
All quarrelling perpetually.
Their time in idle contest spent,
Garden and farm to ruin went;
And the good farmer and his wife
Led but a miserable life.
One day as this unhappy sire
Sat musing by his evening fire,
He saw some twigs in bundles stand,
Tied for the basket-maker's hand.
Taking up one: "My boys," says he,
"Which is the strongest, let me see;
He who this bundle breaks in twain,
The preference, and this prize shall gain,"
(Showing a pair of Sunday shoes.)
The rivals every effort use
In vain. Their utmost force when tried,
The father took the twigs untied,
And giving to them one by one,
The work immediately was done.
"Yon twigs," he says, "that broken lie,
This useful lesson may supply:
That those in amity who live,
And succor to each other give,
Double their forces to resist
Oppression, and their work assist."




[Illustration]

THE FIG TREE AND THE FLOWERING
SHRUB.


Flowers which many leaves display,
In fruitless beauty fade away.

Cries one of these, with saucy sneer,
To a plain fig-tree growing near,
"How comes it, honest friend, that thou
Dost in the spring no blossoms show?"
Says he, "I keep them out of view,
For fear I should resemble you,
And in the autumn nought produce
Of permanence and solid use."

Who soon and much essay to shine,
May dread a premature decline.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FARMER AND THE LANDLORD.


A farmer of an honest fame,
One morning to his landlord came:
"Alas, my lord," he weeping said,
"Gored by my bull, your ox is dead.
What must be done?" "The case is plain,"
Replies the lord; "the creature slain,
The owner of the bull must pay;
Let it be done without delay."
"Heav'n give your worship long to live!
I hope you will a good one give,
For mine was good!" "How! your's, my friend?
Let me your story comprehend:
Your bull, you say, my ox has gored?"
"Forgive me the mistake, my lord,
In my confusion I have made;
Mine was the ox that must be paid;
But 'tis all one--what's just for me
The same must for your worship be:
I'll tell the steward what you say."
"Not yet--we'll think of it to-day.
Further inquiry must be had;
Perhaps your fences were but bad;
Perhaps--but come again to-morrow."
The honest laborer saw with sorrow,
That justice wears a different face,
When for themselves men put the case.




[Illustration]

THE SCHOOL-BOY AND THE
MONITOR.


At play on Thames's verdant side
A school boy fell into the tide,
Where providentially there stood
A willow, bending o'er the flood.
Buoy'd on its branch, he floating lay,
The monitor pass'd by that way.
The lad entreats his life to save:
The Don replies with aspect grave,
"Sirrah, what business had you there?
How vain is all our watchful care!
You never heed a word we say;
Your disobedience you shall pay!"
"First," says the boy, "pray stretch your hand:
I'll hear you when I come to land."

This is for those, with vain parade
Who give advice, instead of aid.




[Illustration]

THE MILLER AND HIS ASS.


A rustic bringing to the fair
An ass, that he might show him there,
Sleek and well looking let him trot;
He followed with his son on foot.
The first they met upon the road,
At our pedestrians laugh'd loud,
"Look at those two legged asses," cried,
"Who trudge on foot when they might ride!"
The father with the hint complies:
Makes the boy mount. Now other cries
Assail their ears; by graybeards blam'd;
"Sirrah, you ought to be asham'd
To ride and let your father walk!"
Again he listened to their talk.
The sire got up, the youth got down;
When passing through a country town,
At every door the mothers said,
"A murrain light on thy old head!
Hast thou no bowels for thy kind?
At least take up the lad behind."
This done they next were thus address'd:
"Two lubbers on a little beast?
They fitter are to carry him!"
Complying with this senseless whim,
Upon a pole his feet in air,
The ass they on their shoulders bear.
Now laughing shouts spread far and wide.
The ass's ligatures untied,
"Proceed, my son," then said the man:
"To please the world, do all we can,
Since 'tis impossible, you see,
To please ourselves content we'll be."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE DREAMER AND HIS SON.


Mortals bring down upon their head
The very miseries most they dread.

The only son of a rich knight
In hunting daily took delight.
The father living in alarm,
Lest he should come to any harm,
Dream'd that he saw him on the ground,
Rent with the lion's fatal wound.
The youth, allow'd to hunt no more,
Impatiently confinement bore.
Remarking, one unlucky day,
In the fine chamber where he lay,
A lion painted on the wall,
"Thou art," he cried, "the cause of all."
With idle rage the wall he struck,
And in his hand an iron stuck,
Which piercing bones and sinews through,
Fester'd and then a gangrene grew.
And thus the father's ill-tim'd care
Deprived him of his son and heir.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE OLD MAN AND DEATH.


Though life be welcome to the wise,
Death cannot take him by surprise;
Aware that every day and hour
He holds but at the tyrant's power,
That beauty, talents, worth, are vain.
A moment's respite to obtain.
Nothing more known, and yet how rare
It is with courage to prepare
For this inevitable day!
All hope a little more delay.

One who had suffer'd many a year,
And to a century drew near,
At last complain'd, that unawares
Death came, unsettled his affairs:
"My will is not completely made;
A little time," he trembling said,
"A little longer let me live;
Some warning 'tis but fair to give!
My grandson is expected home;
At least pray, let the doctor come."
"Poor helpless driveller!" Death replied,
"Ten years ago thou should'st have died!
Thy friends, thy foes, thyself outliv'd:
Almost an age thou hast surviv'd:
Some who their day had scarce begun.
Others beneath their noon-tide sun--
Time's deepest lines engrave thy brow,
And dost thou hesitate to go?
Idiot, what warning would'st thou have?
One foot already in the grave:
Sight, hearing, feeling, day by day,
Sunk gradual in a long decay.
I blame myself for my neglect;
Thou'st not a moment to expect!"

When failing nature warns, the sage
Sees death a refuge from old age;
And rising from life's lengthened feast,
Willing retires, a sated guest.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE PAINTER.


When candid critics deign to blame
Their index points the road to fame,
But when dull fools your works admire,
Throw them at once into the fire.

In Rome there dwelt, in days of yore,
A painter deep in graphic lore.
His touch was firm, his outline true,
And every rule full well he knew.
A Mars he painted, meant to show
How far his learned skill could go.
The work complete, he call'd a friend,
On whose good taste he could depend.
The friend was honest, spoke his thought,
And fairly pointed out the fault,
"That overwork'd in every part,
It show'd too much laborious art."
The painter argued for his rules,
And cited maxims from the schools;
Still the judicious critic held
The labor should be more conceal'd.
While they disputed on his stricture,
A coxcomb came to see the picture:
Entering, he cries, "Good heavens, how fine!
The piece, I swear, is quite divine!
The sword, the knot, the belt, the leather,
The steel, the gold, the silk, the feather,
Are perfect nature, all together!"
The painter, reddening with despite,
Whispers, "My friend, by Jove, you're right.
'Tis not enough our art to know,
Till less of it we learn to show;
My picture must be done again
I see, to please discerning men."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE COBBLER AND THE NABOB.


A cobbler, who had fix'd his stall
Against a nabob's palace wall,
Work'd merrily as others play,
And sung and whistled all the day.
A prey to many an anxious care,
Less merry was the lord, by far;
And often in the night he thought
It hard, sleep was not to be bought:
And if tow'rds morn he got a doze,
The cobbler troubled his repose.
One day he bid the man attend--
And, "Well," says he, "my honest friend,
How is it that so well you thrive?
You seem the happiest man alive.
Pray, what may be the profit clear,
That you can earn within the year?"
"What in a twelvemonth I can earn,
My lord, was never my concern;
'Tis quite enough," the cobbler said,
"If I can gain my daily bread."
"Take then this note"--'twas twenty pound;
"But sing not with so shrill a sound,
Good man," the generous nabob cries,
"When early to your work you rise;
For then I want to close my eyes."
Delighted to his stall he went:
But now he first felt discontent;
All day he neither work'd nor ate,
For thinking of his happy fate.
At night, when he retir'd to bed,
He plac'd the note beneath his head.
But could not sleep a single wink,
What he should do with it, to think;
And every little noise he heard,
That folks were come to rob him, fear'd.
Living in constant dread to all,
Who did but look towards his stall,
So lean and sallow he was grown,
The man was hardly to be known.
At last he begg'd the lord to see:
"Take back your present, sir," said he,
"Riches, I find, are not for me.
To-morrow I my song renew;
Not less my gratitude to you:
And care henceforward I will take,
My chaunts your slumber do not break."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE HORSE AND HIS RIDER.


A man a palfrey long possess'd,
A quiet, serviceable beast;
Spavin'd, indeed, and somewhat blind,
But still his way he well could find;
And if he stumbled now and then,
Was soon upon his feet again.
In short, for many a year, the pack
Had borne him safely on his back.
Till riding out one fatal day,
He overheard some coxcombs say,
"For such a man, 'tis quite a shame,
To mount a horse old, blind, and lame."
"Aye," replied one, "I know a steed
Would nobly carry him indeed;
Young, vigorous, beautiful, and sound;
His like is nowhere to be found."
In evil hour an ear he lent,
To view this boasted courser went:
Unwary on his back he got,
And tried to put him on a trot;
He rear'd and plung'd, and leap'd about,
Till from his seat he shook him out,
Then kicking, pitch'd him o'er his head,
And laid him on the pavement dead.
The vicious creature left at large,
On all his fury would discharge;
This from behind his heels surprise,
Trod under foot, that sprawling lies:
Another, who would seize the reins,
Is bit and mangled for his pains.
But want of nourishment and rest
Will tame at last the fiercest beast;
And rage itself suspends its course,
Exhausted by its proper force.
Light'ning no more his eyes inspire,
No more his nostrils snorted fire;
At bay he stood, fatigu'd and lank,
With flagging ears, and beating flank.
An active jockey, stout and able,
Contracts to bring him to the stable;
Soothes, and his neck begins to pat,
And the corn rattles in his hat;
By hunger drawn, repell'd by fear,
The courser neighs, retires, comes near;
Lur'd with the smell, begins to eat.
The jockey vaulted in the seat:
With vigorous hand the bridle plied,
And stuck the rowels in his side.
Some bounds and curvets still he made,
But soon submissively obey'd.
The horseman who such skill had shown,
Resolv'd to keep him for his own:
Aware that constant work alone
Can keep this wicked spirit down
He night and day is on his back,
To lead him to some new attack,
No road is safe, nor far nor near,
This highwayman is every where.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE GOOD MINISTER.


An honest minister disgrac'd,
(Such are not easily replac'd,)
Found the sweet leisure in his fields,
To virtuous minds retirement yields.
The king, who had his foes believ'd,
The loss of him ere long perceiv'd.
To bring him back again intent,
To his retreat alone he went:
"My friend, you must return with me,"
He said, "your value now I see."
"Forgive me," the Recluse replied;
"Here I determine to abide.
By sad experience well I know,
Were I to court again to go,
And all my best endeavors do,
To serve my country, sir, and you,
Art and intrigue so much prevail,
Again I certainly should fail;
Against your will and approbation,
And the good wishes of the nation,
You'd find yourself compell'd to yield,
And I once more must quit the field."

The honest man, who will not bend
To circumstance, or condescend
To pay his court to knave or fool,
Will never long a nation rule.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE SWAN AND THE COOK.


A man once had a swan and goose
  Among his birds and beasts.
The one was destined for a pet,
  The other for a feast.
Sometimes you saw them sailing
  Gracefully on the current, side by side,
Sometimes they played a game of tag,
  Or plunged into the tide.
One day the master ordered
  The cook to kill the goose,
And roast it for his dinner;
  It was fat and fit for use.
But the cook had taken a drop too much,
  And it had gone to his head;
So when he went out for the goose
  He took the swan instead.
He seized the swan fast by the throat,
  And would have kill'd it soon:
But the bird saw he was to die,
  And he his throat did tune,
And warbled out his farewell lay.
  The cook straight dropped his knife
In great surprise, "what! what!" cried he,
  "Shall I take the life
Of a musical bird like this?
  No, no! it must not be.
So to the garden he shall go back
  And ne'er be kill'd by me."




[Illustration]

THE LYNX AND THE MOLE.


A lynx once met by chance a mole,
Just emerging from his hole.
The lynx with penetrating eye
The beauties of the place did spy,
And asked the mole to take a share
In the fine prospect, rich and rare.
"I've seldom found so good a place.
From this small hill you see a space
Extended far beneath your view,
I like it much; pray do not you?
See now the sun begins to rise,
And with crimson tints the skies.
It spreads all round its genial heat,
And nature now enjoys a treat."
"Well, well!" the mole aloud did cry
"You may see this and more, but I
Can only now before me see,
A very heavy mist." "Truly,
Now," said the lynx, "I clearly see
The difference 'twixt you and me.
My eyes see with perception bright
While your's are always dark as night.
Go to your hold beneath the ground,
While I will range the forest round."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE OLD CAT AND THE YOUNG
MOUSE.


A young mouse of little experience,
Thought to soften an old cat,
And besought her clemency,
By asking for his life at her expense.
Said he, "A mouse, or e'en a rat,
Is not a great charge on the house;
And I shall not starve out the host.
Besides I seldom quit my post,
And when I do a grain of corn
Has served me since I first was born.
Now I am thin, pray let me be,
I'll serve your children yet, you'll see."
Thus to the cat spoke the poor mouse.
The other answered, "You mistake,
When unto me this tone you take;
You might as well talk to the deaf,
As to so old a cat as I,
And through your tricks I spy,
Die! you can go and chatter to the fates,
My children will be fed on better cates."


MORAL.

Youth is sanguine, and hopes for all:
Old age is pitiless; so says our moral.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE TWO FRIENDS.


Two real friends lived in Monomotapa,
All that belonged to one was for the other,
And each was unto each a brother.
The people of that country, thus,
Make better friends than among us.
One night when fast asleep,
  They each were sound reposing,
The eldest darted from his couch,
  And stopped the other's dozing.
He runs to see his friend,
Awakes the slaves, and in the end,
Even his friend is quite alarmed,
And goes to seek the other,
With sword and purse. "My brother,
What can the matter be?
Here I am armed, you see,
Ready with sword to fight for you,
And here is money ready too,
If you have lost in play.
You're even welcome to my handsome slave,
With jet black hair, and eyes so grave."
"No!" said the other, "I need naught,
But ere I slept to-night, I thought,
Being in a trance, that you were sad,
And as the thought nigh drove me mad,
I hurried to your tent,
And found you sleeping quite content."


MORAL.

Which of the two best loved the other?
Here is a thing to ponder on.
A true friend is a precious thing,
And all to aid you he will bring,
But with excess of love the other
In dreams was thinking of his brother.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE SICK STAG.


In a land where stags are many,
One fell sick, and not any
Of all his friends, delayed to come,
To offer aid and consolation,
In his sorrowful situation.
Said he, "My friends, pray let me die
In the right way, nor shed such tears."
Not at all, the consolers,
With many a tear, and many a sigh,
Had come resolved by him to lie;
And when they left they helped themselves
Upon his lands, the greedy elves!
And drank from out his brook,
And every one of them such suppers took,
That when the stag revived,
He found his meals reduced;
So that while his friends had thrived,
He had to fast or die of hunger.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE FOREST AND THE WOODMAN.


A woodman had broken or misplaced
The wooden handle of his axe,
This loss could not be well replaced.
So master woodman humbly prayed
From all the trees a single branch,
And promised to go elsewhere when he made
Again his livelihood,
And he would touch nor oak nor pine.
The trees which were all very good
Furnished for him new arms,
And soon commenced all their alarms,
And their regret. The axe was mended.
And his repentance all was ended.
The miserable wretch but used it,
E'en as he had before abused it,
By felling down the forest trees,
Which groaned in spirit, and which died,
By arms they had themselves supplied.


MORAL.

This is the way the world goes on,
We use our benefits against our benefactors:
I am tired of speaking thereupon,
Till we obtain our wants, we are good actors.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE ELEPHANT AND THE MONKEY
OF JUPITER.


Formerly the elephant and the rhinoceros
Disputing on the light of empire
Resolved to end the combat thus--
By fighting to their heart's desire.
The day was fixed, when it was heard,
That the monkey of Sire Jupiter
Had been seen in the air,
Poised on a cloud like any bird.
The elephant was quite convinced
That to arrange the new election,
An interest the god evinced,
And felt for him a great affection,
He went to see the monkey's highness,
Expecting him to speak about the fight,
But not a word said monkey.
At this sight,
The elephant perceived that he must speak himself,
And so began: "Sire Jupiter," said he,
"Between rhinoceros and me will see
A royal combat of legation;
A tournament for all the nation.
I suppose you have already heard
This news!" Said monkey, "Not a word."
The elephant ashamed, and quite surprised,
Looked on the monkey with astonished eyes.
Said monkey, "In celestial place,
A fly or leopard are of equal race."
"Was it not then because of us,"
Said elephant, "that you descended?"
"Nay," said the monkey, quite offended.
"I left the heavens to share a grain of corn
Among some ants, nor knew that you were born.
We have the care of mortal things;
But all are equals in our eyes,
And at your talk I feel surprise."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE WOODCUTTER AND DEATH.


A woodman was toiling, all covered with dust,
But reach home with his faggot ere night he must,
Panting and weary he walks quite slow,
How to get home he does not know.
At last quite exhausted with toil and trouble,
With the weight of the burden and his years, bent double.
He puts down his faggot, and thinks of his pains,
What is his work, and what are his gains,
How since he came into this weary world,
By the wheels of blind fortune around he's been twirled.
Was he not poor, a wood cutter, at best,
Oft without bread, always without rest.
He thinks of his wife, his children, his taxes,
At last quite warm with the subject he waxes.
He calls on death; who comes without delay,
The woodman, in terror, knows not what to say.
Death asks what to do the man wishes he should.
"Oh, help me," he said, "with this faggot of wood.
My poor bones ache, and my limbs they crack.
So help me to put it upon my back."




[Illustration]

THE RAT AND THE OYSTER.


A rat who lived in the field,
  A rat of little wit,
Once grew tired of his father's house,
  And quietly left it.
He left the field, the grain and wheat,
  Set out to travel, left his hole,
And just as soon as he was out,
  "How large and spacious on the whole
Is this great country spread about.
Here are the Apeninnes, and there Caucasus."
The smallest mole hill is a mountain.
At the end of some days our traveller arrives
At a certain canton where every oyster thrives,
And our famed traveller turned very pale,
Thinking he saw great vessels setting sail
"Mercy," said he, "My father was a dunce,
He did not dare to travel even once,
While I have seen already,
The maritime empire,
And travelled to my heart's desire."
From a certain learn'd man,
The rat had heard of such things,
And thinks he has seen all he can.
Among the many oysters closed,
There was one open, which reposed,
Mouth gaping, in the sun,
The learned, travelled man,
The rat, approached, thinking to make
An excellent repast, and began to take
A bite at the fine oyster, plump and fat,
Whereupon closing on our rat,
The oyster caught him tight
And held him with all its might.


MORAL.

This fable goes to show,
That those mistake,
Who think that all they know:
When knowing nothing of the world,
Their giddy brain is quickly whirled.
And hence this moral let us make,
That he is caught, who thinks to take.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE PHYSICIANS.


Dr. So-much-the-worse went out to see
A patient sick as one could be.
His brother So-much-the-better,
Having received an urgent letter,
Came also the sick man to visit.
So-much-the-worse declared he'd die,
So-much-the-better asked him why.
And while their plans they thus discourse,
The sick man died, _so much the worse_!
So-much-the-better now declared,
That if the sick man had not despaired,
He would have lived. So-much-the-worse
Said, "I was right, agree with me,
Our patient's dead, as you can see."


MORAL.

There's wisdom in the saying, by my troth,
Too many cooks will spoil the broth.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE MOUNTAIN IN LABOR.


A mountain thought to be in labor,
Made such a horrid noise,
That round it each stranger came and neighbor,
Thinking the end of all this noise would be
A city, quite as large as three.
Having drawn all the province round,
The mountain from a little mound,
Let out a mouse.


MORAL.

When I think upon this fable,
Of which the narration is false,
And the sense true;
It puts me much in mind
Of authors not a few,
Who boast that they are able
To write on any subject as they please,
And after all--do nothing.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE CAT METAMORPHOSED INTO
A WOMAN.


A man was passionately fond of his cat,
He thought she was pretty, and sleek, and all that;
And she purred in the softest tone,
He wished to make her his own.
This man by prayers, by tears,
  By sorcery and charms,
Changed pussy to a woman fair,
  And took her in his arms.
But in the wainscot soon a rat
  Made itself manifest,
And very soon the pussy cat,
  Could still no longer rest.
Her foolish husband who believed
  That nothing had of cat remained,
And as his wife had her received--
  Was, now, I warrant, somewhat pained.
Next time the vermin came,
Pussy was surer of her game--
  For having changed her face,
The mice not frightened,
  Did not change their pace--
And the astonished spouse
  Was very glad--
To change her back--
  And was no more cat-mad.


MORAL.

What in the bone is born,
  Will in the flesh remain,
Both night and morn,
  And ne'er come out again.




[Illustration]

THE FROG AND THE RAT.


He who another thinks to injure,
May in the end destroy himself.

A rat who fed exceeding well,
Was by a frog invited out to dine;
"The voyage," said froggy, "will be quickly made,
If you will tie your foot to mine."
Frog vaunted the delight of bathing,
Praised the varieties they'd met upon the way,
And when the rat consented to be tied,
Attempted to bear him away.
The rat half drowned resisted all he could.
The frog, imaged the dinner he would make;
Suddenly, flying from a neighboring wood,
A hawk appeared, and quickly did he take
Both of the combatants up in his bill,
Before they e'en had time to make their will;
And quite delighted did the greedy sinner
Make off of fish and flesh a hearty dinner.
For in the hawk's dominions, fast days
Are never kept.
Now if the frog had acted as he ought,
And had not tried to dine off the poor rat,
They would not both have perished,
To make fat,
A pampered hawk;
And master rat,
Had he not been so curious about
Aquatic government,
Had from the scrape got safely out.


MORAL.

A scheme or a conspiracy,
Be it all plotted well
As safe, 'twould seem as it could be,
And sure of all success,
May, none the less,
Entirely fail,
And grand conspirators,
And all bewail,
The day that set them scheming.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE LION AND THE FLY.


A lion by a gad-fly worried,
Half maddened by his sting,
Exclaimed, "Be off, vile fly--
Mean, pitiful, base thing!"
After the fly had ended his repast,
Fully exhausted feels the beast at last,
And roared so that he shook the earth,
While the victorious fly
Met in the spider's web his destiny.


MORAL.

Two morals draw I from this tale:
  First, We should fear the smallest enemy;
And second, We may escape great perils,
  And from a trifling cause may die.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE TWO MULES.


Two mules went travelling on their way,
  One with a sack of corn;
The other with gold and bells so gay,
  Most gaily tripped along.
Proud of so rich a load,
  He kept the bells a ringing--
And was so proud, had he known how
  He would have commenced singing.
Soon some robbers rude appeared,
  Who stopped this mule upon his road,
And very soon they had him cleared
  Of all his weight of precious gold.
Falling beneath their blows, "I die,"
  The expiring trotter cried,
"Had you been," said the other,
  "Low as I, you would not thus have died."

Be moderate when you are high,
Nor glory o'er the passers by.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

JUPITER AND THE FARMER.


Jupiter had a farm to let,
Mercury advertised it, and people came,
Made offers, listened, all the same,
Made some objection.
One declared the land
Was rough and dry,
And full of sand.
One had this reason, one had that,
Until at last a man appeared,
Who said he'd try to farm it, agreed that
He might have any weather that he chose.

Behold! as soon as he but yawns, it blows
Or rains, or is quite clear.
His neighbors, even the most near,
Are not affected by these changes.
In usual route, their weather ranges;
They have good crops,
But he had none.
At last when tired, he began
Complaining unto Jupiter.
The next year the same thing,
Changes of weather he can bring--
And the neighbors no more
Than the Americans,
Are troubled by the farming
Of his lands.
At last tired out, with all his strife in vain,
He yields his power to the God of rain;
Acknowledging, that all along
The god did right,
And he did wrong.


MORAL.

Let us conclude that Providence
For man ordains much better than we can.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE COCK, THE CAT, AND THE
LITTLE MOUSE.


A young mouse, who had nothing seen,
Was nearly caught; You shall hear how
He told his mother the adventure--
He said, "Pray, listen, now:
I started out to frolic at a venture,
When two fine animals appeared
Before my eyes,
And filled me with surprise.
One was soft, benign, and sweet,
The other, turbulent, and full of inquietude,
Had a loud voice, piercing and rude,
And on his head a piece of flesh.
A sort of arm raised him up in the air,
As though to fly out of a mesh--
His tail was spread out like a fan."
Now it was a cock of which our little mouse,
Made to his mother this fine picture,
Describing him like an enthusiast.
"He beat," said he, "his flanks,
With his two arms,
Making such a noise and such a din,
That, frightened half to death,
I hurried in.
Although I pique myself upon my courage
And heartily I cursed him in my heart,
For but for him, I'd taken part,
In conversation with the gentle creature,
Who my advances would encourage.
She is velvety, like us, with a long tail,
A modest look, and sparkling eyes,
And is much like a rat. She spies
The objects round her. I turned pale
On hearing the other creature's din,
Or else I should have asked her in."
"My child," said the mother, "this last was a cat,
An enemy of every mouse and rat.
The other a cock, whom do not fear,
Perhaps we may dine on him here."

Take care, whatever they may seem,
Of judging people by their mien.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE MONKEY.


The animals, on the death of the lion,
  During his life, prince of the country,
Resolved to elect a king to try on
  The regal crown, and chose a monkey.
Because after the animals had all
Tried on the regal crown, or let it fall,
Because their heads were all too big,
Or too small, too horned, or too thick,
The monkey slipped through it;
And with it cut up many a trick,
Which they all thought refined,
And chose him with one mind.
Only the fox regretted the election,
And swore to reign in his defection.
He came and made his compliment;
"Sire," said he, "I know a treasure meant
For your high majesty. I will show
The spot where it lies hid."
The monkey went at Reynard's bid--
And was caught in a trap.
The fox exclaimed,
"How do you think to govern us,
When, after all, with all your fuss,
You cannot well, do what you may,
Keep e'en yourself out of harm's way."
The animals agreed,
That royal power suits very few indeed.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE HORSE AND THE ASS.


An ass accompanied by a horse uncourteous,
Who only had his harness on his back;
And the poor jackass staggered
'Neath the load of vegetable and a pack;
He begged the horse to help him,
If he could--
But not a single bit,
The other would.
"I ask," said the poor beast,
"A little pity--
Help me at least,
To reach the city."
The horse refused,
And got his due,
For the ass died.
The farmer's man
Stripped off the skin of honest Ben,
And made the horse, whom they espied,
Drag on the skin and the cart beside.


MORAL.

'Tis wise to lend our aid
  To others in distress,
We often thus are made
  The means of happiness.
The churlish, unkind man
  His neighbor's death may cause,
And have to help his family,
  Through taxes and the laws.




[Illustration]

THE ASTROLOGER WHO FELL
INTO A WELL.


An astrologer, of high ambition,
While star-gazing fell down
Into a well. "Sage gentleman,"
Remarked the people of the town,
"How did you think to read the stars, old man,
When you cannot preserve your own position."
This adventure in itself, without going further,
Might serve as a lesson, to most of mankind,
For of us mortals, a certain part inclines,
To the belief, that, with the help of mind,
The book of Destiny may easily be read,
But this book, by Homer and his disciples sung,
What is it called but _Chance_, by ancients,
And by us Christians named Providence instead.
Now in Chance there can no science be,
Or why should it be called by them _Chance_--
And things uncertain, who knows in advance?
If all depends upon the fixed decree,
Of Him who does all things, and nothing does unwisely.
How should we read his will,
And know that which from us he would conceal?
Wherefore watch the stars so nicely,
To know how to avoid inevitable woe;
Or how, in future times, our fate will go;
To make us, in the midst of pleasure, sad,
Or with predicted evil, drive us mad,
Convert all blessings into curses dire?
Is this the knowledge to which we aspire,
Is it an error or a crime thus to believe
That future destiny can thus be known?
In place of star-gazing above our head,
Let us confide ourselves to the Great One.
The firmament exists, the stars go on their way,
And the sun shines upon us every day;
And every day, the day is lost in night,
Without our knowing aught else from the sight.
That the seasons come, the crops are ripe,
And in what wood we should look out for snipe,
And some few other things, but for the change
Of day to night, by which the world doth range,
It has not aught to do with Destiny.
Quacks, and ye compilers of horoscopes,
Quit all the courts of princes in Europe,
And take with you all mischief makers

You deserve belief no more than they do.


MORAL.

This astrologer in the well,
Resembles all of his false art,
Who while they are in danger, dream
That in the stars, they read the happiest theme.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE ANIMALS SICK WITH THE
PLAGUE.


A scourge which spread terror,
Invented by heaven to punish earth--
The plague (if to name it be no error)
Was making every animal
To curse his birth.
In one day it might have enriched Acheron,
And upon beasts made busy war.
Amongst them all there was not one,
But, sick and ailing, was complaining sore;
All did not die, but each was ill--
Not one strove now to eat his fill,
No meat excited them to taste,
Nor did the wolves again lay waste,
The innocent prey.
Even the doves fled from each other,
And cooed no more the live-long day.
The lion held war counsel--"My brother,"
Said he, addressing each in turn,
"I think that heaven hath allowed
This punishment on us to fall
For the sins we have disavowed.
Now I for one will confess all,
And let him who is most to blame,
Be slaughtered in the others' name.
Perhaps he may obtain a common cure,
For history tells us that in like cases,
The guilty die in others' places;
Let us not then be false to Nature,
Let us confess our faults--in fine
I will the first acknowledge mine;
And I avow, that oft I keep
A serious tax on harmless sheep.
What had they done,
In naught offended--
Yet I their quiet lives have ended.
Sometimes, with sorrow be it heard,
I e'en have eaten the shepherd,
And I acknowledge all--
And I will die like a quiet bird--
If my death keep you from your fall.
It must be hoped now in all justice,
That he who is most guilty perish."
"Sire," said the fox, "you are too good a king
To die for any trivial thing;
Your simples are too nice.
Eat sheep, and why not?
Is it a sin? is it a vice?
No, sire, you did them honor;
And as for shepherds, I desire,
That over us their false empire
Should cease, and we have all we want
Of sheep and fleece."
So said the fox, flatterers applaud,
The tiger, bear, and other powers they laud,
Even for their most violent offence.
All quarrelsome people,
Down to the mastiffs,
Were little saints.
But when the donkey's turn came on,
They heard him with many ifs.
He said, "I now remember
That by a monk's garden passing,
(It was late in December,
And my strength soon faints,)
I ate a leaf of some dry plant,
And e'en now I with terror pant."
They seized upon him and devoured,
And said he was the cause
Of heaven's anger being lowered.

With interested judges, _right_
Is always on the side of _might_.




[Illustration]

THE CANDLE.


It was in the home of the Olympian gods,
That bees first lodged, 'tis said,
On Mount Hymettus; and thitherwards
Came zephyrs with light tread.
When from the hives, the honey,
Had all been taken out,
As there remained naught but wax,
Some candles were, for money,
Carefully made and sold in packs.
One of these candles on a certain day
Seeing that clay by fire was turned to brick,
Thought he could harden his body the same;
And getting near the fire to try the trick,
This new Empedocles to flame condemned
Soon found of his philosophy the end.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE HOG, THE GOAT, AND THE
SHEEP.


A goat, a sheep, and a fat hog,
On the same cart were bound for the fair.
They lay as quietly as any log,
But were not seeking their amusement there.
They were to be sold, so says the story.
The carter, who his business knows,
Don't take them into town to see the _shows_.
Dame porker was inclined to squeal,
As though the butcher's knife she 'gan to feel.
Her grunts, and squeals, and cries
Were loud enough to deafen one,
The other animals more wise,
And better tempered, with surprise
Exclaimed, "have done!"
The carter to the porker turned,
"Where have you manners learned,
Why stun us all? Do you not see
That you're the noisiest of the three?
That sheep says not a word,
Nor can the young goat's voice be heard."
"But," said the hog, "they both are fools.
If like me they knew their fate,
They'd halloo out at greater rate,
The goat will only lose her milk,
The sheep his wool, but here, poor me,
I'm to be eaten, and know my destiny."
The porker was quite right,
But hallooing with all her might,
Was all too late,
And could not alter her sad fate.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE DELICATE HERON.


By the bank of a river,
  A heron walked out,
And in it were sporting,
  Pike, mackerel and trout.

Now these fish with great ease,
  Our bird might have caught,
But I'll wait till I'm hungry
  The silly bird thought.

At last came his appetite,
  "Now I'll eat," the bird cries,
And some tench from the bottom,
  Just then he saw rise.

"But these are not good enough
  At this time of day,"
And he waited for better
  Till all swam away.

At eve almost starved
  When all other means fail,
He was right glad to sup
  On a poor little snail.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE BLACKAMOOR AND HER
MISTRESS.


A foolish young lady,
  Took one of her maids,
Who chanced to be black
  As the ace of spades,
And said she'd have her washed white,
  By the other maids;
She was put in a tub,
  And with water and towels
Her skin they did rub,
  Through a long summer day till the night;
But the more they did rub her,
  The blacker she got;
And while they did scrub her,
  She mourned her hard lot.
So the maids threw away
  All their labor and care,
And the mistress gave up
  Her fine scheme in despair.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE BEAR AND THE GARDENER.


A bear and gardener,
  Who mutually tired
Of solitary life,
  And were inspired,
With a warm friendship for each other,
Promised to be to one another,
Excellent friends, and so they were.
As for the death of the poor man
I'll tell you how it happened,
If I can.
The bear watching the gardener in his sleep--
Beholding on his head a fly,
And thinking it bad company,
Took up a stone and dropped it down,
Upon the fly 'tis true,
But broke the gardener's crown.


MORAL.

To make our fortunes or to mend,
A most malignant enemy
Is better than a foolish friend.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE VULTURES AND THE
PIGEONS.


The wing'd inhabitants of air
Waged on a time a direful war.
Not those, in budding groves who sing,
To usher in the amorous spring;
Nor those, with Venus' car who fly
Through the light clouds and yielding sky
But the rapacious vulture brood,
With crooked beak that thirsts for blood,
And iron fangs. Their war, 'tis said,
For a dog's carrion corse was made.
Shrill shrieks resound from shore to shore;
The earth beneath is sanguin'd o'er;
Versed in the science to destroy,
Address and valor they employ.
'Twould take a hundred tongues to tell,
The heroes from the air who fell.
The dovecote race, a gentle nation,
Made offers of their mediation.
Prudent ambassadors are sent;
The vultures with the terms content,
Agree their guarantee to take,
And armistice and treaty make.
This kind desire to interfere,
Cost the poor peace-makers full dear.
To rapine bred, the ruthless crew,
Nor gratitude nor faith who knew,
On the defenceless pigeons fall,
And shortly had devoured them all.


MORAL.

When tyrants from their quarrels cease,
Some weaker neighbor pays their peace.
His safety in their warfare lies;
Their feuds, not he should compromise.
When Joseph, Frederick, and Kate,
Tired of unprofitable hate,
Their animosities would heel,
They swallowed Poland at a meal.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

THE BEAR AND THE BEES.


A bear once rambled from his home,
Chanced through a garden trim to roam,
Where, 'neath the shelter of the trees,
The farmer had his hives of bees.
Bruin loved honey. "Now," said he,
"I'll rob your store-house, Master Bee.
You'll buz, and hum about my ears,
But noise a brave bear never fears."
So saying, bear o'erturns a hive,
And straight the air is all alive,
With angry enemies, who sting
As well as buz; and make bear sing,
A lively tune of growls and roars,
And cover him with smarting sores.

[Illustration]


  [Illustration]

  PETER PATTER _told them to me,
  All the little rimes,
  Whispered them among the bushes
  Half a hundred times.

  Peter lives upon a mountain
  Pretty near the sun,
  Knows the bears and birds and rabbits
  Nearly every one;
  Has a home among the alders,
  Bed of cedar bark,
  Walks alone beneath the pine trees
  Even when it's dark.

  Squirrels tell him everything
  That happens in the trees,
  Cricket in the gander-grass
  Sings of all he sees;
  Rimes from bats and butterflies,
  Crabs and waterfowl;
  But the best of all he gets
  From his Uncle Owl.

  Sometimes when its day-time,
  But mostly in the night,
  They sit beneath an oak tree
  And hug each other tight,
  And tell their rimes and riddles
  Where the catty creatures prowl--
  Funny little Peter Patter
  And his Uncle Owl._




  THE PETER PATTER BOOK


  [Illustration: --B. F. Wright--
  JINGLE, JINGLE, JACK, A COPPER DOWN A CRACK]

  A COPPER DOWN A CRACK


  Jingle, jingle, Jack,
  A copper down a crack.
  Twenty men and all their wives,
  With sticks and picks and pocket knives,
  Digging for their very lives
  To get the copper back.




  I'M MUCH TOO BIG FOR A FAIRY


  I'm much too big for a fairy,
  And much too small for a man,
  But this is true:
  Whatever I do,
  I do it the best I can.




  DID YOU EVER PLAY TAG WITH A TIGER?


  Did you ever play tag with a tiger,
  Or ever play boo with a bear;
  Did you ever put rats in the rain-barrel
  To give poor old Granny a scare?

  It's fun to play tag with a tiger,
  It's fun for the bear to say "boo,"
  But if rats are found in the rain-barrel
  Old Granny will put you in too.




  [Illustration]

  THE BLUE SONG


  Hot mush and molasses all in a blue bowl--
  Eat it, it's good for you, sonny.
  'T will make you grow tall as a telephone pole--
  Eat it, it's good for you, sonny.

  Fresh fish and potatoes all on a blue plate--
  Eat it up smart now, my sonny.
  'T will make you as jolly and fat as Aunt Kate--
  Eat it up quick now, my sonny.

  Sweet milk from a nanny-goat in a blue cup--
  Drink it, it's good for you, sonny,
  'T will fill you, expand you, and help you grow up,
  And make a real man of you, sonny.




  HIPPITY HOP TO BED


  O it's hippity hop to bed!
  I'd rather sit up instead.
  But when father says "must,"
  There's nothing but just
  Go hippity hop to bed.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  AWAY TO THE RIVER


  Away to the river, away to the wood,
  While the grasses are green and the berries are good!
  Where the locusts are scraping their fiddles and bows,
  And the bees keep a-coming wherever one goes.

  Oh, it's off to the river and off to the hills,
  To the land of the bloodroot and wild daffodils,
  With a buttercup blossom to color my chin,
  And a basket of burs to put sandberries in.




  [Illustration]

  OUR LITTLE PAT


  Our little Pat
  Was chasing the cat
  And kicking the kittens about.
  When mother said "Quit!"
  He ran off to sit
  On the top of the woodpile and pout;
  But a sly little grin
  Soon slid down his chin
  And let all the sulkiness out.




  THE ANIMAL SHOW


  Father and mother and Bobbie will go
  To see all the sights at the animal show.
  Where lions and bears
  Sit on dining room chairs,
  Where a camel is able
  To stand on a table,
  Where monkeys and seals
  All travel on wheels,
  And a Zulu baboon
  Rides a baby balloon.
  The sooner you're ready, the sooner we'll go.
  Aboard, all aboard, for the Animal Show!

  [Illustration: THE ANIMAL SHOW]




  TOMMY TRIMBLE


  Billy be nimble,
  Hurry and see
  Old Tommy Trimble
  Climbing a tree.
  He claws with his fingers
  And digs with his toes.
  The longer he lingers
  The slower he goes.




  [Illustration]

  DICKIE, DICKIE DEXTER


  Dickie, Dickie Dexter
  Had a wife and vexed her.
  She put him in a rabbit cage
  And fed him peppermint and sage--
  Dickie, Dickie Dexter.




  ON THE ROAD TO TATTLETOWN


  On the road to Tattletown
  What is this I see?
  A pig upon a pedestal,
  A cabbage up a tree,
  A rabbit cutting capers
  With a twenty dollar bill--
  Now if I don't get to Tattletown
  Then no one ever will.




  POLLY AND PETER


  Polly had some china cows
  And Peter had a gun.
  She turned the bossies out to browse,
  And Peterkin, for fun,
  Just peppered them with butter beans
  And blew them all to smithereens.

         *       *       *

  Now what will pretty Polly do
  For milk and cream and butter too?




  I WENT TO TOWN ON MONDAY


  I went to town on Monday
  To buy myself a coat,
  But on the way I met a man
  Who traveled with a caravan,
  And bought a billy-goat.

  I went to town on Tuesday
  And bought a fancy vest.
  I kept the pretty bucklestraps,
  Buttonholes and pocketflaps,
  And threw away the rest.

  [Illustration]

  I went to town on Thursday
  To buy a loaf of bread,
  But when I got there, goodness sakes!
  The town was full of rattlesnakes--
  The bakers all were dead.

  [Illustration]

  I went to town on Saturday
  To get myself a wife,
  But when I saw the lady fair
  I gnashed my teeth and pulled my hair
  And scampered for my life.




  [Illustration]

  WHERE ARE YOU GOING?


  Where are you going, sister Kate?
  I'm going to swing on the garden gate,
  And watch the fairy gypsies dance
  Their tim-tam-tum on the cabbage-plants--
  The great big one with the purple nose,
  And the tiny tad with the pinky toes.

  Where are you going, brother Ben?
  I'm going to build a tiger-pen.
  I'll get iron and steel and 'lectric wire
  And build it a hundred feet, or higher,
  And put ten tigers in it too,
  And a big wildcat, and--mebbe--you.

  [Illustration]

  Where are you going, mother mine?
  I'm going to sit by the old grapevine,
  And watch the gliding swallow bring
  Clay for her nest from the meadow spring--
  Clay and straw and a bit of thread
  To weave it into a baby's bed.

  [Illustration]

  Where are you going, grandma dear?
  I'm going, love, where the skies are clear,
  And the light winds lift the poppy flowers
  And gather clouds for the summer showers,
  Where the old folks and the children play
  On the warm hillside through the livelong day.




  CHRISTOPHER CRUMP


  Christopher Crump,
  All in a lump,
  Sits like a toad on the top of a stump.
  He stretches and sighs,
  And blinks with his eyes,
  Bats at the beetles and fights off the flies.




  [Illustration]

  PINKY, PINKY, PANG


  A tortoise sat on a slippery limb
  And played his pinky pang
  For a dog-fish friend that called on him,
  And this is what he sang:
  "Oh, the skies are blue,
  And I wait for you
  To come where the willows hang,
  And dance all night
  By the white moonlight
  To my pinky, pinky, pang!"




  TICK, TOCK


  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Forty 'leven by the clock.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Put your ear to Grandpa's ticker,
  Like a pancake, only thicker.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Catch a squirrel in half a minute,
  Grab a sack and stick him in it.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Mister Bunny feeds on honey,
  Tea, and taters--ain't it funny?
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  When he goes to bed at night,
  Shoves his slippers out of sight;
  That is why Old Fox, the sinner,
  Had to go without his dinner.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  So says Grandpa's clock.

  [Illustration: TICK, TOCK! TICK, TOCK! FORTY 'LEVEN BY THE CLOCK]




  [Illustration]

  UNDER THE WILLOW


  Put down your pillow under the willow,
  Hang up your hat in the sun,
  And lie down to snooze as long as you choose,
  For the plowing and sowing are done.

  Pick up your pillow from under the willow,
  And clamber out into the sun.
  Get a fork and a rake for goodness' sake,
  For the harvest time has begun.




  HIGH ON THE MANTEL


  High on the mantel rose a moan--
  It came from an idol carved in bone--
  "Oh, it's so lonesome here alone,
  With no one near to love me!"

  A cautious smile came over the face
  Of a pensive maid on a Grecian vase
  "Are you sure," she said, with charming grace,
  "There's no one near to love you?"

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  BOOTS, BOOTS, BOOTS


  Buster's got a popper gun,
  A reg'lar one that shoots,
  And Teddy's got an engine
  With a whistler that toots.
  But I've got something finer yet--
  A pair of rubber boots.
  Oh, it's boots, boots, boots,
  A pair of rubber boots!
  I could walk from here to China
  In a pair of rubber boots.




  [Illustration]

  BUTTERFLY


  Butterfly, butterfly,
  Sit on my chin,
  Your wings are like tinsel,
  So yellow and thin.

  Butterfly, butterfly,
  Give me a kiss;
  If you give me a dozen
  There's nothing amiss.

  Butterfly, butterfly,
  Off to the flowers,--
  Wee, soulless sprite
  Of the long summer hours.




  BEELA BY THE SEA


  Catch a floater, catch an eel,
  Catch a lazy whale,
  Catch an oyster by the heel
  And put him in a pail.

  There's lots of work for Uncle Ike,
  Fatty Ford and me
  All day long and half the night
  At Beela by the sea.

  [Illustration]




  A MATTER OF TASTE


  "Thank you, dear," said the big black ant,
  "I'd like to go home with you now, but I can't.
  I have to hurry and milk my cows--
  The aphid herds on the aster boughs."
  And the ladybug said: "No doubt it's fine,
  This milk you get from your curious kine,
  But you know quite well it's my belief
  Your cows are best when turned to beef."




  TOMMY, MY SON


  "Tommy, my son," said the old tabby cat,
  "Go catch us some mice, and be sure that they're fat.
  There's one family lives in the carpenter's barn;
  They've made them a nest of the old lady's yarn.
  But the carpenter has a young cat of his own
  That is healthy and proud and almost full grown,
  And consider it, son, an eternal disgrace
  To come home at night with a scratch on your face."

  [Illustration]




  OH, SAID THE WORM


  "Oh," said the worm,
  "I'm awfully tired of sitting in the trees;
  I want to be a butterfly
  And chase the bumblebees."




  [Illustration]

  BUZZY BROWN


  Buzzy Brown came home from town
  As crazy as a loon,
  He wore a purple overcoat
  And sang a Sunday tune.

  Buzzy Brown came home from town
  As proud as he could be,
  He found three doughnuts and a bun
  A-growing on a tree.




  THE WIND


  The wind came a-whooping, down Cranberry Hill
  And stole an umbrella from, Mother Medill.

  It picked up a paper on Patterson's place
  And carried it clean to the Rockaby Race.

  And what was more shocking and awful than that,
  It blew the new feather off grandmother's hat.

  [Illustration: THE WIND CAME A-WHOOPING DOWN CRANBERRY HILL]




  THE HOBO BAND


  The roads are good and the weather's grand,
  So I'm off to play in the Hobo Band;
  With a gaspipe flute and a cowhide drum
  I'm going to make the music come.
  With a toot, toot, toot, and a dum, dum, dum,
  Just hear me make the music come!




  [Illustration]

  A BEETLE ON A BROOMSTRAW


  A robin and a wren, as they walked along one night,
  Saw a big brown beetle on a broomstraw.
  Said the robin to the wren: "What a pretty, pretty sight--
  That big brown beetle on a broomstraw!"
  So they got their plates and knives,
  Their children and their wives,
  And gobbled up the beetle on the broomstraw.




  MULE THOUGHTS


  A silly little mule
  Sat on a milking stool
  And tried to write a letter to his father.
  But he couldn't find the ink,
  So he said: "I rather think
  This writing letters home is too much bother."

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  A CANDLE, A CANDLE


  A candle, a candle
  To light me to bed;
  A pillow, a pillow
  To tuck up my head.
  The moon is as sleepy as sleepy can be,
  The stars are all pointing their fingers at me,
  And Missus Hop-Robin, way up in her nest,
  Is rocking her tired little babies to rest.
  So give me a blanket
  To tuck up my toes,
  And a little soft pillow
  To snuggle my nose.




  [Illustration]

  BAXTER


  Baxter had a billy-goat
  Wall-eyed and double jointed.
  He took him to the barber shop
  And had his head anointed.




  LODDY, GIN, AND ELLA ZANDER


  Loddy, Gin, and Ella Zander
  Rode to market on a gander;
  Bought a crane for half a dollar;
  Loddy led him by the collar.

  Mister Crane said: "Hi there, master,
  Can't you make your legs work faster?
  We can't poke along this way."
  Then he slowly flew away.
  Loddy held him fast, you bet,
  And he hasn't come home yet.




  AS I WAS GOING DOWN THE HILL


  As I was going down the hill
  In front of Missus Knapp's
  I saw the little Knapperines
  All in their winter wraps--
  Purple mitts and mufflers
  And knitted jersey caps.

  As I was coming back again
  In front of Missus Knapp's
  I saw that awful lady
  Give about a dozen slaps
  To every little Knapperine--
  I thought it was, perhaps,
  Because they gathered stickers
  In their knitted jersey caps.

  [Illustration: GOING DOWN THE HILL IN FRONT OF MRS. KNAPP'S]




  [Illustration]

  A LITTLE BOY RAN TO THE END OF THE SKY


  A little boy ran to the end of the sky
  With a rag and a pole and a gooseberry pie.
  He cried: "Three cheers for the Fourth of July!"
  With a rag and a pole and a gooseberry pie.

  He saw three little donkeys at play,
  He tickled their noses to make them bray,
  And he didn't come back until Christmas Day--
  With a rag and a pole and a gooseberry pie.




  DISCRETION


  A man with a nickel,
  A sword, and a sickle,
  A pipe, and a paper of pins
  Set out for the Niger
  To capture a tiger--
  And that's how my story begins.

  When he saw the wide ocean,
  He soon took a notion
  'T would be nicer to stay with his friends.
  So he traded his hat
  For a tortoise-shell cat--
  And that's how the chronicle ends.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  A BEETLE ONCE SAT ON A BARBERRY TWIG


  A beetle once sat on a barberry twig,
  And turned at the crank of a thingum-a-jig.
  Needles for hornets, nippers for ants,
  For the bumblebee baby a new pair of pants,
  For the grizzled old gopher a hat and a wig,
  The beetle ground out of his thingum-a-jig.




  [Illustration]

  THE THIEVES


  Tibbitts and Bibbitts and Solomon Sly
  Ran off one day with a cucumber pie.
  Tibbitts was tossed by a Kensington cow,
  Bibbitts was hanged on a brambleweed bough,
  And poor little Solomon--what do you think?
  Was drowned one dark night in a bottle of ink.




  UPON THE IRISH SEA


  Some one told Maria Ann,
  Maria Ann told me,
  That kittens ride in coffee cans
  Upon the Irish Sea.

  From quiet caves to rolling waves,
  How jolly it must be
  To travel in a coffee can
  Upon the Irish Sea!

  But when it snows and when it blows,
  How would you like to be
  A kitten in a coffee can
  Upon the Irish Sea?




  DUCKLE, DAISY


  Duckle, duckle, daisy,
  Martha must be crazy,
  She went and made a Christmas cake
  Of olive oil and gluten-flake,
  And set it in the sink to bake,
  Duckle, duckle, daisy.

  [Illustration: DUCKLE, DUCKLE, DAISY]




  [Illustration]

  I'VE GOT A NEW BOOK


  I've got a new book from my Grandfather Hyde.
  It's skin on the cover and paper inside,
  And reads about Arabs and horses and slaves,
  And tells how the Caliph of Bagdad behaves.
  I'd not take a goat and a dollar beside
  For the book that I got from my Grandfather Hyde.




  THE CARROT AND THE RABBIT


  A carrot in a garden
  And a rabbit in the wood.
  Said the rabbit, "Beg your pardon,
  But you're surely meant for food;
  Though you've started in to harden,
  You may still be very good."




  HIPPY-HI-HOPPY


  Hippy-Hi-Hoppy, the big fat toad,
  Greeted his friends at a turn of the road.

  Said he to the snail:
  "Here's a ring for your tail
  If you'll go into town for my afternoon mail."

  Said he to the rat:
  "I have talked with the cat;
  And she'll nab you so quick you won't know where you're at."

  Said he to the lizard:
  "I'm really no wizard,
  But I'll show you a trick that will tickle your gizzard."

  Said he to the lark:
  "When it gets fairly dark
  We'll chase the mosquitoes in Peek-a-Boo Park."

  Said he to the owl:
  "If it were not for your scowl
  I'd like you as well as most any wild fowl."

  Said he to the wren:
  "You're tiny, but then
  I'll marry you quick, if you'll only say when."

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration: I'LL TREAT THE CLOWN]

  UP ON THE GARDEN GATE


  Set me up on the garden gate
  And put on my Sunday tie;
  I want to be there
  With a round-eyed stare
  When the circus band goes by.

  Give me a bag of suckerettes
  And give me a piece of gum,
  Then I'll get down
  And treat the clown,
  And give the monkey some.




  'MOST ANY CHIP


  'Most any chip
  Will do for a ship,
  If only the cargo be
  Golden sand
  From the beautiful land
  Of far-off Arcady.
  For faith will waft
  The tiny craft
  O'er Fancy's shining sea.




  [Illustration]

  A MOON SONG


  Who hung his hat on the moon?
  The owl in his bubble balloon.
  One bright summer night
  He sailed out of sight,
  And, hooting like Lucifer, hung in delight
  His three-cornered hat on the moon.




  WHAT MAKES YOU LAUGH?


  "What makes you laugh, my little lass,
  From morning until noon?"
  "I saw a dappled donkey
  Throwing kisses at the moon."

  [Illustration]

  "What makes you cry, my little lass,
  And get your eyes so red?"
  "I saw a cruel gardener cut
  A poor old cabbage head."

  [Illustration]

  "What makes you run, my little lass?
  You're almost out of breath."
  "A pumpkin made a face at me,
  And scared me half to death."




  TIMMY O'TOOLE


  When Timmy O'Toole
  Was going to school
  He picked up a package of gum.
  He treated the preacher
  And Sunday-school teacher,
  And gave a policeman some.




  A MAN CAME FROM MALDEN


  A man came from Malden to buy a blue goose.
  And what became of the gander?
  He went and got tipsy on blackberry juice,
  And that was the end of the gander.




  BARON BATTEROFF


  The mighty baron, Batteroff,
  Raised a whale in a watering trough.
  When the whale grew large and fat
  He ate the baron's brindle cat.
  But pussy, once inside the whale,
  Began to tickle with her tail.
  This the monster could not stand,
  And spewed her out upon dry land.
  That night, when all was fine as silk
  And she had supped her bread and milk,
  She grinned and told old Batteroff
  How she got the whale to cough.




  SIX LITTLE SALMON


  I sing a funny song from away out west,
  Of six little salmon with their hats on;
  How they all left home--but I forget the rest--
  The six little salmon with their hats on.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  TO GARRY ON THE TOOT-TOOT


  Oh, I want to go to Garry
  On the toot-toot, toot-toot,
  You and I together
  On the toot-toot, toot-toot.
  Go run and ask your mother
  For some kind of cake or other,
  And a bit of cotton wadding
  For your ball-suit.
  Get your bobber and a bat,
  And be back as quick as scat,
  For we've got to go to Garry
  On the toot-toot.




  DOUBBLEDOON


  Bobbin rode a rocking-horse
  'Way down to Doubbledoon,
  He told his little sister
  He'd be back that afternoon.
  But maybe after all she didn't
  Understand him right,
  For he wasn't back again
  Till the middle of the night.

  And what did little Bobbin see
  'Way down at Doubbledoon?
  He saw a crazy Arab
  Throwing bubbles at the moon,
  A monkey making faces
  And a rabbit in a rage,
  A parrot shouting "Murder!"
  From the ceiling of his cage.

  At last a yellow jumping-jack,
  A camel, and a coon,
  Chased poor little Bobbin
  All the way from Doubbledoon.

  [Illustration: BOBBIN RODE A ROCKING-HORSE TO DOUBBLEDOON]




  [Illustration]

  THE PARTY


  Billy Bluebird had a party
  In an elder tree,
  But the little black-eyed smarty
  Didn't ask us to his party
  Neither you nor me.

  This is what they had for dinner,
  For I peeked to see:
  Apple seeds and beetle finner,
  And for drink the little sinner
  Gave them tansy tea.

  But there came an awful clatter
  From that elder tree,
  When he served them on a platter
  Hopper-hash and brick-dust batter
  Trimmed with celery!

  All the folks were hale and hearty,
  Happy as could be;
  And that little black-eyed smarty
  Left out of his funny party
  Only you and me.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  I'VE GOT A YELLOW PUPPY


  I've got a yellow puppy,
  And I've got a speckled hen,
  I've got a lot of little
  Spotted piggies in a pen.
  I've got a gun that used to shoot,
  Another one that squirts,
  I've got some horehound candy
  And a pair of woolen shirts.
  I've got a little rubber ball
  They use for playing golf,
  And mamma thinks that's maybe why
  I've got the whooping-cough.




  [Illustration: DOCTOR McSWATTLE FILLED UP A BOTTLE]

  DOCTOR McSWATTLE


  Doctor McSwattle
  Filled up a bottle
  With vinegar, varnish, and rum.
  And offered a swallow
  To all who would follow
  The call of his trumpet and drum.
  It's good, I am told,
  For a cough or a cold;
  It's good for a pain in your thumb.




  COLUMBUS


  Columbus sailed over the ocean blue
  To find the United States.
  In three small ships he carried his crew,
  And none of the three were mates.

  He found a land in the western seas,
  And Indians galore,
  With jabbering parrots in the trees,
  And sharks along the shore.

  [Illustration]

  He filled his pockets with sparkling stones
  And took to the mighty main,
  With a couple of slaves, some nuts and cones
  For the glorious king of Spain.

  Now this is the tale Columbus told,
  And most of the tale is true,
  How he crossed the seas, a sailor bold,
  In fourteen-ninety-two.




  [Illustration]

  TERRIBLE TIM


  Haven't you heard of Terrible Tim!
  Well, don't you get in the way of him.
  He eats lions for breakfast
  And leopards for lunch,
  And gobbles them down
  With one terrible crunch.
  He could mix a whole city
  All up in a mess,
  He could drink up a sea
  Or an ocean, I guess.
  You'd better be watching for Terrible Tim,
  And run when you first get your peepers on him.




  WHAT'S THE USE?


  "What's the use,"
  Said the goose,
  "To swim like a frog,
  When you go just as far
  If you float on a log?"

  "Why should I,"
  Said the fly,
  "Suck an old apple-core,
  When there's sugar and fruit
  In the grocery store?"

  "It's but right,"
  Said the kite,
  "That I follow the wind.
  What's a fellow to do
  If he hasn't a mind?"

  "You'll allow,"
  Said the cow,
  "That I'm really no thief,
  When I turn all the clover
  I steal, into beef."

  "Come again,"
  Said the hen,
  "On some other fine day.
  Don't think 'cause I cackle
  I always must lay."




  ALL ABOARD FOR BOMBAY


  All aboard for Bombay,
  All aboard for Rome!
  Leave your little sisters
  And your loving aunts at home.

  Bring a bit of bailing wire,
  A pocketful of nails,
  And half a dozen wiener-wursts
  For every man that sails.

  Tell Terry Tagg, when you go by,
  Be sure to bring his dog.
  All aboard for Bombay
  On a floating cedar log!

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  WATER


  There's water in the rain barrel,
  And water in the well,
  There's lots of water in the pond
  Where Hannah Hawkins fell.

  There's water in the ocean,
  And water in the skies,
  And when a fellow blubbers
  He gets water in his eyes.

  But in the Barca desert
  Where the hippodoodles play,
  The water in the rivers
  Just dries up and blows away.




  OLD MOLLY IS LOWING


  Old Molly is lowing and lowing
  'Way down in the old meadow lot.
  I've given her water and clover,
  And all of the apples I've got;
  But she won't eat a thing that I give her,
  And never drinks even a sup,
  For they've taken her baby to market
  And some one has eaten it up.
  I'd just like to go to the city
  And cut them all up into halves
  And feed them to sharks and to lions--
  Those people that eat little calves.

  [Illustration]




  SNOWFLAKES


  The snowflakes are falling by ones and by twos;
  There's snow on my jacket, and snow on my shoes;
  There's snow on the bushes, and snow on the trees--
  It's snowing on everything now, if you please.

  [Illustration: THE SNOWFLAKES ARE FALLING BY ONES AND BY TWOS]




  DIPPY-DIPPY-DAVY


  Dippy-Dippy-Davy,
  Half the Royal Navy
  In the dampness and the dark
  Was driving off a savage shark
  To Dippy-Dippy-Davy.




  [Illustration]

  WHEN I'M AS RICH
  AS UNCLE CLAUS


  When I'm as rich as Uncle Claus,
  With whiskers on my chin,
  I'm going to have a great big house
  To put my people in.

  I'll never let them wander out
  Or ride with me to town;
  They'll come a-running when I shout
  And tremble when I frown.

  I'll have some men in soldier tents,
  A pirate and his mate,
  And wildcats all around the fence,
  And mad dogs on the gate.




  RINKY-TATTLE


  Rinky-tattle, rinky-tattle,
  Rinky-tattle--who?
  Little Tommy Taylor
  Is a rinky-tattle too.

  [Illustration]




  TWENTY LITTLE SNOWFLAKES


  Twenty little snowflakes climbing up a wire.
  "Now, listen," said their mother, "don't you climb up any higher.
  The sun will surely catch you, and scorch you with his fire."
  But the naughty little snowflakes didn't mind a word she said,
  Each tried to clamber faster than his fellow just ahead;
  They thought that they'd be back in time enough to go to bed.
  But they found out that their mother wasn't quite the dunce they
        thought her,
  The sun bobbed up--remember this, my little son and daughter--
  And turned those twenty snowflakes into twenty drops of water.




  [Illustration]

  SLIPPERY SLIM


  Slippery Slim, a garter snake,
  Leaned against a garden rake
  And smiled a sentimental smile
  At Tilly Toad, on the gravel pile,
  Till that bashful miss was forced to hop
  And hide her face in a carrot-top.




  [Illustration: THROUGH FOG AND RAIN I RUN MY TRAIN]

  THE FREIGHTER


  Through fog and rain
  I run my train
  Wherever the track is laid,
  And over the road
  I carry a load
  Whenever the freight is paid.

  A kaddy of tea
  For Genessee,
  For Troy an empty crate,
  A man in brown
  For Uniontown
  To help them celebrate.




  NO ONE AT HOME


  No one at home in the hen-house,
  And no one at home in the barn,
  Old Brindle has gone to the neighbor's
  To borrow a skein of brown yarn,
  To borrow yarn for the darning
  Of socks for her wee spotted calf--

  The little rollicking rascal
  Has never enough by half.
  And Speckle is down by the willow
  Washing her chicks in the lake,
  While old Daddy Cockle is lying
  Abed with a bad toothache.




  PATTERS AND TATTERS


  Patters had a gallant band,
  An army made of clay.
  But Tatters took the garden hose
  And washed them all away.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  CROWN THE KING WITH CARROT TOPS


  Crown the king with carrot tops,
  Dress him in sateen,
  Give him lots of licorice drops,
  With suckers in between.

  For he's a king with lots of power
  And awful, awful fierce,
  He kills a pirate every hour
  And washes in his tears.

  He rides a charger ten feet high,
  A dashing, dappled gray;
  Has ginger pop and lemon pie
  For breakfast every day.

  So get a royal canopy,
  The finest ever seen,
  And whiskers for his majesty,
  And tresses for the queen.




  THE CANADA GOOSE


  A Canada goose
  On the South Palouse
  Is singing her summer song.
  Her words are wise,
  And she greets the skies
  With a voice like a steamer gong:
  "If you harbor your wealth
  And keep your health,
  You'll always be rich and strong."




  [Illustration]

  HIPPERTY, CLICKERTY, CLACKERTY, BANG


  Hipperty, clickerty, clackerty, bang,
  Get in a corner as fast as you can!
  The sideboard is tipsy, the table is mad,
  The chairs have lost all the sense that they had.
  So hipperty, clickerty, clackerty, bang,
  Get in a corner as fast as you can!




  [Illustration]

  SONNY


  A sailor gave his sonny
  Nearly half a pint of money
  And sent him out to buy a ton of coal;
  But he met a poor old miser
  Who told him it were wiser
  To bury all his money in a hole.

  A sailor gave his sonny
  Nearly half a pint of money
  And told him he should buy a suit of clothes;
  But he saw a pretty maiden
  With all kinds of posies laden,
  And he gave her all his money for a rose.

  Then the sailor gave his sonny
  Nearly half a pint of money
  To buy a little garden and a house;
  But he found him the next day,
  In a shop on Yesler Way,
  A-buying cheese and crackers for a mouse.

  [Illustration: HE GAVE HER ALL HIS MONEY FOR A ROSE]




  THE STOVE


  A stove is a thing that gets awfully hot,
  And fries up your meat, or whatever you've got.
  It's made out of iron and hinges and screws,
  And filled up with shakers, and dampers, and flues.
  It's not very long and it's not very wide;
  It's got black'ning on top and ashes inside.




  [Illustration]

  THE THUNDER BABY


  Have you heard of the Thunder Baby
  Way up in the big blue sky?
  You've seen his cradle, maybe,
  And maybe you've heard him cry.

  Most of the time he's sleeping,
  Rolled up in a big white cloud,
  But when he's awake and hungry
  He bellows awfully loud.

  And when he's crying, sometimes
  You can hear his teardrops fall
  With a patter, patter, patter,
  Against the garden wall.

  But when he's madder'n mischief,
  He rolls, and growls, and spits,
  And kicks the clouds all forty ways,
  And gives the weather fits.

  Then tears come down in bucketfuls,
  And children dance for joy,
  Till the sun comes out and soundly spanks
  Her Thunder Baby Boy.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  HINKY, PINKY, PEARLY EARL


  Hinky, pinky, pearly earl,
  Twenty nobles and a churl;
  Some are fat and some are lean,
  One in red and one in green--
  Prior, priest, and pearly earl,
  Twenty nobles and a churl.




  [Illustration]

  TIPSY TOM


  Tipsy Tom, the naughty fellow,
  Dressed his wife in pink and yellow,
  Set her in an apple tree,
  And said: "Now catch a bumblebee."




  JOLLY JINKS


  Jolly Jinks, the sailor man,
  Went to sea in an oyster can.
  But he found the water wet,
  Fishes got into his net,
  So he pulled his boat to shore
  And vowed he'd sail the seas no more.




  TRANSFORMATION


  Auntie Ellen found her poodle--
  Mercy! Goodness sake!--
  Playing with the mully-wumps
  Down along the lake.

  And when she called him tenderly
  He didn't want to come;
  It took her over half an hour
  To get the rascal home.

  She washed him well with shaving-soap,
  Pumice stone and lye,
  She showered him and she scoured him
  And she hung him up to dry.

  And now he sits there quite serene,
  The sweetest poodle ever seen.

  [Illustration: TRANSFORMATION]




  [Illustration]

  THE THIEF CHASE


  Bricks and bones!
  Sticks and stones!
  I chased a thief through twenty zones.

  I found his hat
  On Ararat,
  And hurried on as quick as scat.

  In a day or two
  I found his shoe
  Where he had sailed for Timbuktu.

  I met the goat
  That ate his coat
  Upon the road to Terre Haute.

  At last all worn
  And quite forlorn
  I chased him up the Matterhorn.




  SOMEBODY


  Somebody give me a peanut,
  Somebody give me a pear;
  I want to go down to the circus
  And feed all the animals there.

  [Illustration]




  CONSOLATION


  A dime and a dollar
  Took me by the collar
  And whispered this word in my ear:

  "We must leave you to-morrow,
  But prithee don't sorrow,
  We'll come back to see you next year."




  THE ROBIN AND THE SQUIRREL


  Said the Robin to the Squirrel,
  "How d' you do?"
  Said the Squirrel to the Robin,
  "How are you?"
  "Oh, I've got some cherry pies,
  And a half a dozen flies,
  And a kettle full of beetles on to stew."

  [Illustration]

  Said the Squirrel to the Robin,
  "How d' you do?"
  Said the Robin to the Squirrel,
  "How are you?"
  "I've a nest that's nice and neat,
  And a wife that can't be beat,
  And I'm every bit as happy now as you."




  THE KING HAD A PLATTER


  The King had a platter
  Of brisket and batter,
  The Prince had a Bellington bun,
  The Queen had a rose
  To put to her nose
  As soon as the dinner was done.




  [Illustration]

  RAIN


  The lightning split the sky in two
  And set the clouds to leaking
  Just as dear old Pastor Brown
  Began his Sunday speaking.

  He told about the awful rain
  That fell in Noah's day,
  And one by one the happy smiles
  Began to fade away.

  In half an hour the people all
  Put on their rubber coats,
  And when he finished everyone
  Was out and building boats.




  OLD FATHER McNETHER


  Old Father McNether
  He sorts out the weather
  And takes what he pleases, I'm told,
  With a big turkey-feather
  He mixes the weather,
  And makes it blow hot and blow cold.

  [Illustration: OLD FATHER McNETHER]




  JERRY WAS A JOKER


  Jerry was a joker.
  He carried off the poker
  And dressed it up from head to heel
  In clover-tops and orange-peel
  And fed it bones and barley meal.
  Poor old Rusty Poker!




  [Illustration]

  KING KOKEM


  King Kokem lay snoozing upon his brass bed--
  Oh, play an old tune on your fiddle!
  With shoes on his feet, and a crown on his head--
  Oh, tune up your rusty old fiddle!

  He dreamed of a land where the lions were tame,
  Where they fried their lamb-chops on a griddle,
  Where they called all the parrots and monkeys by name--
  Oh, play us a tune on your fiddle!

  He dreamed of a sea filled with raspberry pop,
  With a cocoanut isle in the middle,
  Where the stones and the boulders had icing on top--
  Go strike up a tune on your fiddle!

  He dreamed of a sky where the moonbeams all danced
  While a comet was telling a riddle,
  Where the stars and the planets and sun-dogs all pranced
  While the moon played his fiddle de diddle.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  OLD MISSUS SKINNER


  Old Missus Skinner
  Had dumplings for dinner
  And sat on a very high stool;
  When she cut thru the hide
  There was nothing inside,
  Which I'm sure was not often the rule.




  [Illustration: OH MOTHER, OH MOTHER, COME QUICKLY AND SEE]

  OH, MOTHER


  Oh, Mother, Oh, Mother,
  Come quickly and see,
  The house and the farmyard
  Have gone on a spree.

  The pig's in the pantry,
  The chickens are out,
  The parrot is perched
  On the tea kettle spout.

  And mercy, Oh, mercy,
  Oh, what shall I do?
  A rat has run off
  With my very best shoe.




  CELLA REE AND TOMMY TO


  Two funny friends that you all know
  Are Cella Ree and Tommy To.
  About as queer as friends can be,
  Are Tommy To and Cella Ree.
  For hours they sit there grim and stable
  Side by side upon the table.
  Tom is red and Cella pale,
  His blushes are of no avail;
  She sits, in spite of his endeavor,
  As firm and undisturbed as ever,
  A funny pair, you must agree,
  This Tommy To and Cella Ree.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  IF I WERE RICHER


  If I were richer
  I'd buy a pitcher
  With scenery on it.
  'Jolica ware--
  Storks here and there,
  And a funny affair
  With ladies on it.

  In half a minute
  I'd mix up in it
  A wonderful drink--
  Peppermint, ice,
  Lemons and spice--
  Taste pretty nice,
  What do you think?




  THE ARMY OF THE QUEEN


  O the Army of the Queen,
  The Army of the Queen,
  Some are dressed in turkey-red
  And some are dressed in green;
  A colonel and a captain,
  A corporal in between,
  Their guns are filled with powder
  And their swords are bright and keen;
  So toot your little trumpet
  For the Army of the Queen.

  [Illustration: TOOT YOUR LITTLE TRUMPET FOR THE ARMY OF THE QUEEN]




  ROMULUS


  Romulus, Romulus,
  Father of Rome,
  Ran off with a wolf
  And he wouldn't come home.

  When he grew up
  He founded a city
  With an eagle, a bear,
  And a tortoise-shell kitty.




  [Illustration]

  THE HERO


  My dad was a soldier and fought in the wars,
  My grandfather fought on the sea,
  And the tales of their daring and valor of course
  Put the sand and the ginger in me.

  I'm not scared of tigers or any wild beast,
  I could fight with a lion all right,
  I wouldn't be 'fraid of a bear in the least--
  Excepting, perhaps, in the night.

  But sister, she's skeery as skeery can be,
  She's even afraid of the bark of a tree.




  PENSIVE PERCY


  Percy when a little boy
  Was quiet as a mouse,
  He never set the barn afire
  Nor battered down the house.

  He used to sit for hours and hours
  Just gazing at the moon,
  And feeding little fishes
  Sarsaparilla from a spoon.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  MOON, O MOON IN THE EMPTY SKY


  Moon, O Moon in the empty sky,
  Why do you swing so low?
  Pretty moon with the silver ring
  And the long bright beams where the fairies cling,
  Where do you always go?

  I go to the land of the Siamese,
  Ceylon and the Great Plateau,
  Over the seas where Sinbad sailed,
  Where Moses crossed and Pharaoh failed,--
  There's where I always go.




  [Illustration: RAG-MAN, RAG-MAN, TAGGY, TAGGY, RAG-MAN]

  THE RAG-MAN


  "Rag-man, rag-man,
  Taggy, taggy, rag-man,
  Tell us what you've got there in your sack."

  "Oh--it's full of rimes and riddles,
  Jingles, jokes, and hi-de-diddles--
  This bundle that I carry on my back."

  "O tell us, funny rag-man,
  Grinny, skinny rag-man,
  Where did you pick up your funny rimes?"

  "Some were dancing with corn-flowers,
  Some were hiding in church-towers,
  And sprinkled helter-skelter by the chimes."

  "Rag-man, rag-man,
  Nice old taggy rag-man,
  Sing us just one jingle, tingle song."

  "Why, my dears, I've got a plenty,
  Sing you one? I'll sing you twenty--
  I've been hoping you would ask me all along."




  WHENEVER I GO OUT TO WALK


  Whenever I go out to walk,
  All the geese begin to gawk;
  And when I start to wander back,
  All the ducks begin to quack.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  A FREE SHOW


  Mister McCune
  Can whistle a tune,

  Old Uncle Strong
  Can sing us a song,

  Benjamin Biddle
  Can play on the fiddle,

  Captain O'Trigg
  Can dance us a jig,

  And I, if I'm able,
  Will tell you a fable.




  BILLY BUMPKINS


  Heigho, Billy Bumpkins,
  How d' you grow your pumpkins?
  "At six o'clock I sows 'em,
  At ten o'clock I hoes 'em,
  An' jes before I goes to bed
  I puts 'em in the pumpkin shed."

  Tell us, Billy Bumpkins,
  How d' you sell your pumpkins?
  "I lends 'em to the ladies,
  I gives 'em to the babies,
  An' trades a hundred for a kiss
  To any pretty little miss."

  [Illustration]




  BLUE FLAMES AND RED FLAMES


  Blue flames and red flames
  In a world all dark;
  Blue flames and red flames,
  And a tiny spark
  Hurrying to heaven, lest it should be late;
  Lest the cautious seraphim close the shining gate,
  And leave the little wanderer forevermore to fly
  Like an orphan angel through the endless sky.




  TIMOTHY GRADY


  Poor little Timothy Grady
  Screwed up his face at a lady,
  And, jiminy jack!
  It wouldn't come back.
  The louder he hollered
  The tighter it grew,
  His eyes are all red
  And his lips are all blue.
  Oh, mercy me, what in the world will he do?
  Poor little Timothy Grady!




  CAPTAIN TICKLE AND HIS NICKEL


  Captain Tickle had a nickel
  In a paper sack,
  He threw it in the river
  And he couldn't get it back.
  Captain Tickle spent his nickel
  For a rubber ball,
  And when he cut it open
  There was nothing there at all.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  GRANDMOTHER GRUNDY


  O Grandmother Grundy,
  Now what would you say
  If the katydids carried
  Your glasses away--

  Carried them off
  To the top of the sky
  And used them to watch
  The eclipses go by?




  NEEDLES AND PINS


  Needles and pins, hooks and eyes!
  I saw a doughnut in the skies.
  Flipperjinks the circus clown
  Climbed a tree and got it down.

  [Illustration: NEEDLES AND PINS, HOOKS AND EYES!]




  A TOE RIME


  Tassle is a captain,
  Tinsel is a mayor,
  Tony is a baker-boy
  With 'lasses in his hair,
  Tipsy is a sailor,
  With anchors on his chest,
  And Tiny is the baby boy
  Who bosses all the rest.




  HARRY HOOKER


  Harry Hooker had a book
  And couldn't find a teacher.
  But still he managed very well,
  He climbed a box and rang a bell
  And turned into a preacher.




  [Illustration]

  JELLY JAKE AND BUTTER BILL


  [Illustration]

  Jelly Jake and Butter Bill
  One dark night when all was still
  Pattered down the long, dark stair,
  And no one saw the guilty pair;
  Pushed aside the pantry-door
  And there found everything galore,--
  Honey, raisins, orange-peel,
  Cold chicken aplenty for a meal,
  Gingerbread enough to fill
  Two such boys as Jake and Bill.
  Well, they ate and ate and ate,
  Gobbled at an awful rate
  Till I'm sure they soon weighed more
  Than double what they did before.
  And then, it's awful, still it's true,
  The floor gave way and they went thru.
  Filled so full they couldn't fight.
  Slowly they sank out of sight.
  Father, Mother, Cousin Ann,
  Cook and nurse and furnace man
  Fished in forty-dozen ways
  After them, for twenty days;
  But not a soul has chanced to get
  A glimpse or glimmer of them yet.
  And I'm afraid we never will--
  Poor Jelly Jake and Butter Bill.

  [Illustration]




  CUT UP A CAPER


  Cut up a caper,
  You've got a paper
  And I've got a widget of string.
  You be the army
  And let nothing harm me
  For I am the captain and king.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration: WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A TREAT]

  EAT, EAT, EAT


  Here come the sweet potatoes
  And here's the Sunday meat,
  I guess we must be ready now
  To eat, eat, eat.

  I'm going to have the nicey plate
  And Daddy's leather seat,
  And wear my patent-leather shoes
  To eat, eat, eat.

  My Daddy's talking all about
  The war, and some old fleet,
  I wonder if he never, never,
  Never wants to eat.

  We're going to have some apple-cake,
  We're going to have a treat.
  O hurry, hurry, Daddy,
  Let us eat, eat, eat.




  [Illustration]

  HETTY HUTTON


  Hetty Hutton,
  Here's a button,
  Sew it on your dress.

  Willie Waller,
  Here's a dollar,
  Maybe more or less.

  Mister Shuster,
  Here's a rooster,
  Put him in a pen.

  Mister Saxon,
  Get an ax an'
  Let him out again.




  [Illustration]

  A BIG, FAT POTATO


  A big, fat potato lay down on a clod
  In the shade of some burdock and tall goldenrod,
  And he dreamed he were king of the whole garden plot,
  With a palace and throne, and a crown with a lot
  Of jewels and diamonds and gold till it shone
  Like the front of a show when the lights are turned on.
  He had to be minded by all of the plants;
  When he whistled the radishes knew they must dance;
  When he tooted his horn the cucumbers must sing
  To a vegetable crowd gathered round in a ring.
  He made all the cabbages stand in a row
  While a sunflower instructed them just how to grow;
  The bright yellow pumpkins he painted light blue;
  Took the clothes off the scare-crow and made him buy new.
  He strutted and sputtered and thought it was grand
  To be king and commander o'er all the wide land.
  But at last he woke up with an awful surprise
  And found a blind mole kicking sand in his eyes.

  [Illustration]




  A BUNDLE OF HAY


  A bundle of hay
  From Baffin's Bay,
  A johnny-cake from Rome,
  A man and a mule
  From Ultima Thule
  To carry the cargo home.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  PETER, POPPER


  Peter, popper, dopper, Dan,
  Catch a moonbeam if you can;
  Climb a cedar ten feet high
  And pick the planets from the sky.
  You're a wonder, little man--
  Peter, popper, dopper, Dan.




  OLD FATHER ANNUM


  Old Father Annum on New Year's Day
  Picked up his bag of months and years,
  Thrust in his hand in a careless way,
  And pulled a wee fellow out by the ears.
  "There you are," said he to the waiting crowd,
  "He's as good as any I have in my pack.
  I never can tell, but I hope to be proud
  Of the little rascal when I come back."

  [Illustration: OLD FATHER ANNUM]




  THE TIPPANY FLOWER


  O what will you take for a tippany flower,
  And what will you take for a pansy?
  I'll take a smile for the tippany flower,
  And a kiss for the pretty pansy.




  [Illustration]

  HERE COMES A CABBAGE


  Here comes a cabbage with a bonnet on its head,
  A pretty purple bonnet with a bow of blue and red;
  And here comes a bottle with a collar 'round its neck,
  A handsome linen collar, too, without a spot or speck;
  Next comes a meat-saw, his job is biting beef,
  And according to the cleaver he has gold in all his teeth;
  And last of all there comes along, amid the ringing cheers,
  A princely Indian corn-stalk with rings in both his ears.




  [Illustration]

  PLENTY


  There are plenty feathers on a hen
  And prickers on a rose,
  There is plenty roaring in a den
  Of lions, goodness knows;

  There are plenty fishes in the lake
  And islands in the sea;
  There are plenty raisins in this cake
  For even you and me.




  THE RUNAWAYS


  A pipe and a spoon and a tenpenny nail
  Stole a tin dishpan and went for a sail.
  But the cook he grew curious,
  Fussy, and furious;
  Gathered his trappings, and went on their trail.
  He found them that night in a pitiful plight,
  And sent them all home on the ten o'clock mail.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration: HI! HI! WHO WILL BUY A WEE LITTLE CLOUD]

  THE SALESMAN


  Hi! Hi! Who will buy
  A wee little cloud for the pretty blue sky?
  Some are purple, some are red,
  And all are soft as a feather bed.
  Hi! Little children, won't any one buy
  One little cloud for the pretty blue sky?




  A RACE, A RACE TO MOSCOW


  A race, a race to Moscow,
  Before the close of day!
  A race, a race to Moscow,
  A long, long way!
  First comes a butterfly a-riding on a frog,
  Next comes a water rat a-floating on a log;
  A caterpillar on the fence, a hopper in the hay--
  Who'll get to Moscow before the close of day?




  [Illustration]

  A PRINCE FROM PEPPERVILLE


  A prince came down from Pepperville
  In satin and in lace,
  He wore a bonnet on his head
  And whiskers on his face.

  And when he came to Battleburg
  This is what befell:
  He gave the king and cabinet
  A half a peanut shell.




  [Illustration]

  BOATS


  Hitch up your cattle
  And drive to Seattle
  To see all the boats come in,--
  From Kibi and Kobi
  And Panama Dobi
  And some from the Islands of Myn.
  They're bringing us rices
  And cocoa and spices
  And pineapples done up in tin,
  And maybe Aunt Dinah
  Will come back from China
  If ever the boats get in.




  PRETTY THINGS


  Pretty poppies,
  Pretty trees,
  Pretty little lettuce-leaves,
  Pretty pebbles,
  Red and brown,
  Pretty floating thistle-down.
  Pretty baby,
  Curly head,
  Standing in a pansy-bed,
  Pretty clouds
  All white and curled--
  O the great, big pretty world!

  [Illustration: PRETTY THINGS]




  DID YOU EVER?


  Did you ever go to the watering trough
  And watch the sparrows drink?
  Did you ever go to Potter's pond
  And see the divers sink?
  Did you ever steal to the barn at night
  And watch the hoot-owls think?




  [Illustration]

  HOOTEM, TOOTEM, CLEAR THE TRACK


  Hootem, tootem, clear the track!
  I caught a coon on Kamiak!
  Colonel Clapp and Uncle Rome
  Have hired a hack to bring it home.




  DOCTOR DRAKE


  On a hummock by the lake
  Stands the home of Doctor Drake,
  Poor old doctor, how he works!
  Week by week he never shirks--

  Pulling teeth for guinea-fowl,
  Soothing puppies when they howl,
  Whittling out a hickory peg
  For a gander's broken leg,

  Giving medicine away
  About a hundred times a day,
  Linseed oil and elder-bark
  To a croaking meadowlark,

  Nasty, bitter yarrow-tea
  To a tipsy bumble-bee,
  A poultice made of plantain leaves
  To cure a rabbit with the heaves.

  Fever, colic, cramp, or stitch,
  Kitten-croup or beaver's-itch,
  Any kind of pain or ache
  Is cured by dear, old Doctor Drake.




  [Illustration]

  BABIES


  Come to the land where the babies grow,
  Like flowers in the green, green grass.
  Tiny babes that swing and crow
  Whenever the warm winds pass,
  And laugh at their own bright eyes aglow
  In a fairy looking-glass.

  Come to the sea where the babies sail
  In ships of shining pearl,
  Borne to the west by a golden gale
  Of sun-beams all awhirl;
  And perhaps a baby brother will sail
  To you, my little girl.




  TWENTY THIEVES FROM ALBION


  Twenty thieves from Albion,
  All with butcher knives,
  Coming on the dead run,
  Fighting for their lives.

  See the man from our town.
  In a fancy vest,
  Knocking all the big ones down,
  Chasing all the rest.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  AS I CAME OUT OF GRUNDY GREET


  As I came out of Grundy Greet
  Four cats were marching down the street

  One was long and gray and thin
  With lots of whiskers on his chin,

  And one was round and sleek and fat
  (He must have been a butcher's cat).

  One was dapper, slight, and frail,
  With bells and tassels on his tail,

  And one had starey yellow eyes
  Almost as big as pumpkin pies.

  These four came marching down the street
  As I came out of Grundy Greet.

  [Illustration]

﻿    THE GNOMIES


    As I lay awake in the white moonlight,
    I heard a sweet singing in the wood--
          'Out of bed,
          Sleepyhead,
          Put your white foot now,
          Here are we,
          'Neath the tree,
          Singing round the root now!'

    I looked out of window in the white moonlight,
    The trees were like snow in the wood--
          'Come away
          Child and play,
          Light wi' the gnomies;
          In a mound,
          Green and round,
          That's where their home is!
          'Honey sweet,
          Curds to eat,
          Cream and frumènty,
          Shells and beads,
          Poppy seeds,
          You shall have plenty.'

    But soon as I stooped in the dim moonlight
    To put on my stocking and my shoe,
    The sweet, sweet singing died sadly away,
    And the light of the morning peep'd through:
    Then instead of the gnomies there came a red robin
    To sing of the buttercups and dew.




    BLUEBELLS


    Where the bluebells and the wind are,
    Fairies in a ring I spied,
    And I heard a little linnet
    Singing near beside.

    Where the primrose and the dew are,
    Soon were sped the fairies all:
    Only now the green turf freshens,
    And the linnets call.




    LOVELOCKS


    I watched the Lady Caroline
    Bind up her dark and beauteous hair;
    Her face was rosy in the glass,
    And 'twixt the coils her hands would pass,
        White in the candleshine.

    Her bottles on the table lay,
    Stoppered yet sweet of violet;
    Her image in the mirror stooped
    To view those locks as lightly looped
        As cherry-boughs in May.

    The snowy night lay dim without,
    I heard the Waits their sweet song sing;
    The window smouldered keen with frost;
    Yet still she twisted, sleeked and tossed
        Her beauteous hair about.




    O DEAR ME!


    Here are crocuses, white, gold, grey!
      'O dear me!' says Marjorie May;
    Flat as a platter the blackberry blows:
      'O dear me!' says Madeleine Rose;
    The leaves are fallen, the swallows flown:
      'O dear me!' says Humphrey John;
    Snow lies thick where all night it fell:
      'O dear me!' says Emmanuel.




    TARTARY


    If I were Lord of Tartary,
      Myself and me alone,
    My bed should be of ivory,
      Of beaten gold my throne;
    And in my court should peacocks flaunt,
    And in my forests tigers haunt,
    And in my pools great fishes slant
      Their fins athwart the sun.

    If I were Lord of Tartary,
      Trumpeters every day
    To all my meals should summon me,
      And in my courtyards bray;
    And in the evenings lamps should shine,
    Yellow as honey, red as wine,
    While harp, and flute, and mandoline,
      Made music sweet and gay.

    If I were Lord of Tartary,
      I'd wear a robe of beads,
    White, and gold, and green they'd be--
      And small, and thick as seeds;
    And ere should wane the morning-star,
    I'd don my robe and scimitar,
    And zebras seven should draw my car
      Through Tartary's dark glades.

    Lord of the fruits of Tartary,
      Her rivers silver-pale!
    Lord of the hills of Tartary,
      Glen, thicket, wood, and dale!
    Her flashing stars, her scented breeze,
    Her trembling lakes, like foamless seas,
    Her bird-delighting citron-trees
      In every purple vale!




    THE BUCKLE


    I had a silver buckle,
    I sewed it on my shoe,
    And 'neath a sprig of mistletoe
    I danced the evening through!

    I had a bunch of cowslips,
    I hid 'em in a grot,
    In case the elves should come by night
    And me remember not.

    I had a yellow riband,
    I tied it in my hair,
    That, walking in the garden,
    The birds might see it there.

    I had a secret laughter,
    I laughed it near the wall:
    Only the ivy and the wind
    May tell of it at all.




    THE HARE


    In the black furrow of a field
    I saw an old witch-hare this night;
    And she cocked her lissome ear,
    And she eyed the moon so bright,
    And she nibbled o' the green;
    And I whispered 'Whsst! witch-hare,'
    Away like a ghostie o'er the field
    She fled, and left the moonlight there.




    BUNCHES OF GRAPES


    'Bunches of grapes,' says Timothy;
    'Pomegranates pink,' says Elaine;
    'A junket of cream and a cranberry tart
      For me,' says Jane.

    'Love-in-a-mist,' says Timothy;
    'Primroses pale,' says Elaine;
    'A nosegay of pinks and mignonette
      For me,' says Jane.

    'Chariots of gold,' says Timothy;
    'Silvery wings,' says Elaine;
    'A bumpity ride in a wagon of hay
      For me,' says Jane.




    JOHN MOULDY


    I spied John Mouldy in his cellar,
    Deep down twenty steps of stone;
    In the dusk he sat a-smiling,
      Smiling there alone.

    He read no book, he snuffed no candle;
    The rats ran in, the rats ran out;
    And far and near, the drip of water
      Went whisp'ring about.

    The dusk was still, with dew a-falling,
    I saw the Dog-star bleak and grim,
    I saw a slim brown rat of Norway
      Creep over him.

    I spied John Mouldy in his cellar,
    Deep down twenty steps of stone;
    In the dusk he sat a-smiling,
      Smiling there alone.




    THE FLY


    How large unto the tiny fly
      Must little things appear!--
    A rosebud like a feather bed,
      Its prickle like a spear;

    A dewdrop like a looking-glass,
      A hair like golden wire;
    The smallest grain of mustard-seed
      As fierce as coals of fire;

    A loaf of bread, a lofty hill;
      A wasp, a cruel leopard;
    And specks of salt as bright to see
      As lambkins to a shepherd.




    SONG


    O for a moon to light me home!
      O for a lanthorn green!
    For those sweet stars the Pleiades,
    That glitter in the twilight trees;
      O for a lovelorn taper! O
      For a lanthorn green!

    O for a frock of tartan!
      O for clear, wild, grey eyes!
    For fingers light as violets,
    'Neath branches that the blackbird frets;
      O for a thistly meadow! O
      For clear, wild grey eyes!

    O for a heart like almond boughs!
      O for sweet thoughts like rain!
    O for first-love like fields of grey,
    Shut April-buds at break of day!
      O for a sleep like music!
      For still dreams like rain!




    I SAW THREE WITCHES


    I saw three witches
    That bowed down like barley,
    And took to their brooms 'neath a louring sky,
    And, mounting a storm-cloud,
    Aloft on its margin,
    Stood black in the silver as up they did fly.

    I saw three witches
    That mocked the poor sparrows
    They carried in cages of wicker along,
    Till a hawk from his eyrie
    Swooped down like an arrow,
    And smote on the cages, and ended their song.

    I saw three witches
    That sailed in a shallop,
    All turning their heads with a truculent smile,
    Till a bank of green osiers
    Concealed their grim faces,
    Though I heard them lamenting for many a mile.

    I saw three witches
    Asleep in a valley,
    Their heads in a row, like stones in a flood,
    Till the moon, creeping upward,
    Looked white through the valley,
    And turned them to bushes in bright scarlet bud.




    THE SILVER PENNY


    'Sailorman, I'll give to you
      My bright silver penny,
    If out to sea you'll sail me
      And my dear sister Jenny.'

    'Get in, young sir, I'll sail ye
      And your dear sister Jenny,
    But pay she shall her golden locks
      Instead of your penny.'

    They sail away, they sail away,
      O fierce the winds blew!
    The foam flew in clouds,
      And dark the night grew!

    And all the wild sea-water
      Climbed steep into the boat;
    Back to the shore again
      Sail they will not.

    Drowned is the sailorman,
      Drowned is sweet Jenny,
    And drowned in the deep sea
      A bright silver penny.




    THE NIGHT-SWANS


    'Tis silence on the enchanted lake,
    And silence in the air serene,
    Save for the beating of her heart,
    The lovely-eyed Evangeline.

    She sings across the waters clear
    And dark with trees and stars between,
    The notes her fairy godmother
    Taught her, the child Evangeline.

    As might the unrippled pool reply,
    Faltering an answer far and sweet,
    Three swans as white as mountain snow
    Swim mantling to her feet.

    And still upon the lake they stay,
    Their eyes black stars in all their snow,
    And softly, in the glassy pool,
    Their feet beat darkly to and fro.

    She rides upon her little boat,
    Her swans swim through the starry sheen,
    Rowing her into Fairyland--
    The lovely-eyed Evangeline.

    'Tis silence on the enchanted lake,
    And silence in the air serene;
    Voices shall call in vain again
    On earth the child Evangeline.

    'Evangeline! Evangeline!'
    Upstairs, downstairs, all in vain.
    Her room is dim; her flowers faded;
    She answers not again.




    THE FAIRIES DANCING


    I heard along the early hills,
    Ere yet the lark was risen up,
    Ere yet the dawn with firelight fills
    The night-dew of the bramble-cup,--
    I heard the fairies in a ring
    Sing as they tripped a lilting round
    Soft as the moon on wavering wing.
    The starlight shook as if with sound,
    As if with echoing, and the stars
    Prankt their bright eyes with trembling gleams;
    While red with war the gusty Mars
    Rained upon earth his ruddy beams.
    He shone alone, adown the West,
    While I, behind a hawthorn-bush,
    Watched on the fairies flaxen-tressed
    The fires of the morning flush.
    Till, as a mist, their beauty died,
    Their singing shrill and fainter grew;
    And daylight tremulous and wide
    Flooded the moorland through and through;
    Till Urdon's copper weathercock
    Was reared in golden flame afar,
    And dim from moonlit dreams awoke
    The towers and groves of Arroar.




    REVERIE


    When slim Sophia mounts her horse
       And paces down the avenue,
    It seems an inward melody
         She paces to.

    Each narrow hoof is lifted high
      Beneath the dark enclust'ring pines,
    A silver ray within his bit
        And bridle shines.

    His eye burns deep, his tail is arched,
      And streams upon the shadowy air,
    The daylight sleeks his jetty flanks,
        His mistress' hair.

    Her habit flows in darkness down,
      Upon the stirrup rests her foot,
    Her brow is lifted, as if earth
        She heeded not.

    'Tis silent in the avenue,
      The sombre pines are mute of song,
    The blue is dark, there moves no breeze
        The boughs among.

    When slim Sophia mounts her horse
      And paces down the avenue,
    It seems an inward melody
        She paces to.




    THE THREE BEGGARS


    'Twas autumn daybreak gold and wild,
      While past St Ann's grey tower they shuffled,
    Three beggars spied a fairy-child
        In crimson mantle muffled.

    The daybreak lighted up her face
      All pink, and sharp, and emerald-eyed;
    She looked on them a little space,
        And shrill as hautboy cried:--

    'O three tall footsore men of rags
      Which walking this gold morn I see,
    What will ye give me from your bags
        For fairy kisses three?'

    The first, that was a reddish man,
      Out of his bundle takes a crust:
    'La, by the tombstones of St Ann,
        There's fee, if fee ye must!'

    The second, that was a chesnut man,
      Out of his bundle draws a bone:
    'La, by the belfry of St Ann,
        And all my breakfast gone!'

    The third, that was a yellow man,
      Out of his bundle picks a groat,
    'La, by the Angel of St Ann,
        And I must go without.'

    That changeling, lean and icy-lipped,
      Touched crust, and bone, and groat, and lo!
    Beneath her finger taper-tipped
        The magic all ran through.

    Instead of crust a peacock pie,
      Instead of bone sweet venison,
    Instead of groat a white lilie
        With seven blooms thereon.

    And each fair cup was deep with wine:
      Such was the changeling's charity,
    The sweet feast was enough for nine,
        But not too much for three.

    O toothsome meat in jelly froze!
      O tender haunch of elfin stag!
    O rich the odour that arose!
        O plump with scraps each bag!

    There, in the daybreak gold and wild,
      Each merry-hearted beggar man
    Drank deep unto the fairy child,
        And blessed the good St Ann.




    THE DWARF


    'Now, Jinnie, my dear, to the dwarf be off,
        That lives in Barberry Wood,
    And fetch me some honey, but be sure you don't laugh,--
      He hates little girls that are rude, are rude,
        He hates little girls that are rude.'

    Jane tapped at the door of the house in the wood,
        And the dwarf looked over the wall,
    He eyed her so queer, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep from laughing at all, at all,
        To keep from laughing at all.

    His shoes down the passage came clod, clod, clod,
        And when he opened the door,
    He croaked so harsh, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep from laughing the more, the more,
        To keep from laughing the more.

    As there, with his bushy red beard, he stood,
        Pricked out to double its size,
    He squinted so cross, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep the tears out of her eyes, her eyes,
        To keep the tears out of her eyes.

    He slammed the door, and went clod, clod, clod,
        But while in the porch she bides,
    He squealed so fierce, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep from cracking her sides, her sides,
        To keep from cracking her sides.

    He threw a pumpkin over the wall,
        And melons and apples beside,
    So thick in the air, that to see 'em all fall,
      She laughed, and laughed, till she cried, cried, cried,
        Jane laughed and laughed till she cried.

    Down fell her teardrops a pit-apat-pat,
        And red as a rose she grew;--
    'Kah! kah!' said the dwarf, 'is it crying you're at?
      It's the very worst thing you could do, do, do,
        It's the very worst thing you could do.'

    He slipped like a monkey up into a tree,
        He shook her down cherries like rain;
    'See now,' says he, cheeping, 'a blackbird I be,
      Laugh, laugh, little Jinnie, again-gain-gain,
        Laugh, laugh, little Jinnie, again.'

    Ah me! what a strange, what a gladsome duet
        From a house i' the deeps of a wood!
    Such shrill and such harsh voices never met yet
      A-laughing as loud as they could-could-could,
        A-laughing as loud as they could.

    Come Jinnie, come dwarf, cocksparrow, and bee,
        There's a ring gaudy-green in the dell,
    Sing, sing, ye sweet cherubs, that flit in the tree;
      La! who can draw tears from a well-well-well,
        Who ever drew tears from a well!




    ALULVAN


    The sun is clear of bird and cloud,
    The grass shines windless, grey, and still,
    In dusky ruin the owl dreams on,
    The cuckoo echoes on the hill;
      Yet soft along Alulvan's walks
        The ghost at noonday stalks.

    His eyes in shadow of his hat
    Stare on the ruins of his house;
    His cloak, up-fasten'd with a brooch,
    Of faded velvet grey as mouse,
      Brushes the roses as he goes:
        Yet wavers not one rose.

    The wild birds in a cloud fly up
    From their sweet feeding in the fruit;
    The droning of the bees and flies
    Rises gradual as a lute;
      Is it for fear the birds are flown,
        And shrills the insect-drone?

    Thick is the ivy o'er Alulvan,
    And crisp with summer-heat its turf;
    Far, far across its empty pastures
    Alulvan's sands are white with surf:
      And he himself is grey as sea,
        Watching beneath an elder-tree.

    All night the fretful, shrill Banshee
    Lurks in the chambers' dark festoons,
    Calling for ever, o'er garden and river,
    Through magpie changing of the moons:
      'Alulvan, O, alas! Alulvan,
        The doom of lone Alulvan!'




    THE PEDLAR


    There came a Pedlar to an evening house;
    Sweet Lettice, from her lattice looking down,
    Wondered what man he was, so curious
    His black hair dangled on his tattered gown:
    Then lifts he up his face, with glittering eyes,--
    'What will you buy, sweetheart?--Here's honeycomb,
    And mottled pippins, and sweet mulberry pies,
    Comfits and peaches, snowy cherry bloom,
    To keep in water for to make night sweet:
    All that you want, sweetheart,--come, taste and eat!'

    Ev'n with his sugared words, returned to her
    The clear remembrance of a gentle voice:--
    'And O! my child, should ever a flatterer
    Tap with his wares, and promise of all joys
    And vain sweet pleasures that on earth may be;
    Seal up your ears, sing some old happy song,
    Confuse his magic who is all mockery:
    His sweets are death.' Yet, still, how she doth long
    But just to taste, then shut the lattice tight,
    And hide her eyes from the delicious sight!

    'What must I pay?' she whispered. 'Pay!' says he,
    'Pedlar I am who through this wood do roam,
    One lock of hair is gold enough for me,
    For apple, peach, comfit, or honeycomb!'
    But from her bough a drowsy squirrel cried,
    'Trust him not, Lettice, trust, oh trust him not!'
    And many another woodland tongue beside
    Rose softly in the silence--'Trust him not!'
    Then cried the Pedlar in a bitter voice,
    'What, in the thicket, is this idle noise?'

    A late, harsh blackbird smote him with her wings,
    As through the glade, dark in the dim, she flew;
    Yet still the Pedlar his old burden sings,--
    'What, pretty sweetheart, shall I show to you?
    Here's orange ribands, here's a string of pearls,
    Here's silk of buttercup and pansy glove,
    A pin of tortoiseshell for windy curls,
    A box of silver, scented sweet with clove:
    Come now,' he says, with dim and lifted face,
    'I pass not often such a lonely place.'

    'Pluck not a hair!' a hidden rabbit cried,
    'With but one hair he'll steal thy heart away,
    Then only sorrow shall thy lattice hide:
    Go in! all honest pedlars come by day.'
    There was dead silence in the drowsy wood;
    'Here's syrup for to lull sweet maids to sleep;
    And bells for dreams, and fairy wine and food
    All day thy heart in happiness to keep';--
    And now she takes the scissors on her thumb,--
    'O, then, no more unto my lattice come!'

    O sad the sound of weeping in the wood!
    Now only night is where the Pedlar was;
    And bleak as frost upon a too-sweet bud
    His magic steals in darkness, O alas!
    Why all the summer doth sweet Lettice pine?
    And, ere the wheat is ripe, why lies her gold
    Hid 'neath fresh new-pluckt sprigs of eglantine?
    Why all the morning hath the cuckoo tolled,
    Sad to and fro in green and secret ways,
    With lonely bells the burden of his days?

    And, in the market-place, what man is this
    Who wears a loop of gold upon his breast,
    Stuck heartwise; and whose glassy flatteries
    Take all the townsfolk ere they go to rest
    Who come to buy and gossip? Doth his eye
    Remember a face lovely in a wood?
    O people! hasten, hasten, do not buy
    His woful wares; the bird of grief doth brood
    There where his heart should be; and far away
    Dew lies on grave-flowers this selfsame day!




    THE GREY WOLF


    'A fagot, a fagot, go fetch for the fire, son!'
      'O, Mother, the wolf looks in at the door!'
    'Cry Shoo! now, cry Shoo! thou fierce grey wolf fly, now;
      Haste thee away, he will fright thee no more.'

    'I ran, O, I ran, but the grey wolf ran faster,
      O, Mother, I cry in the air at thy door,
    Cry Shoo! now, cry Shoo! but his fangs were so cruel,
      Thy son (save his hatchet) thou'lt never see more.'




    THE OGRE


    'Tis moonlight on Trebarwith Vale,
      And moonlight on an Ogre keen,
    Who prowling hungry through the dale
      A lone cottage hath seen.

    Small with thin smoke ascending up
      Three casements and a door:--
    The Ogre eager is to sup,
      And here seems dainty store.

    Sweet as a larder to a mouse,
      So to him staring down,
    Seemed the sweet-windowed moonlit house,
      With jasmine overgrown.

    He snorted, as the billows snort
      In darkness of the night,
    Betwixt his lean locks tawny-swart,
      He glowered on the sight.

    Into the garden sweet with peas
      He put his wooden shoe,
    And bending back the apple trees
      Crept covetously through;

    Then, stooping, with an impious eye
      Stared through the lattice small,
    And spied two children which did lie
      Asleep, against the wall.

    Into their dreams no shadow fell,
      Of his disastrous thumb
    Groping discreet, and gradual,
      Across the quiet room.

    But scarce his nail had scraped the cot
      Wherein these children lay,
    As if his malice were forgot,
      It suddenly did stay.

    For faintly in the ingle-nook
      He heard a cradlesong,
    That rose into his thoughts and woke
      Terror them among.

    For she who in the kitchen sat
      Darning by the fire,
    Guileless of what he would be at,
      Sang sweet as wind or wire:--

    'Lullay, thou little tiny child,
      By-by, lullay, lullie;
    Jesu of glory, meek and mild,
      This night remember ye!

    'Fiend, witch, and goblin, foul and wild,
      He deems 'em smoke to be;
    Lullay, thou little tiny child,
      By-by, lullay, lullie!'

    The Ogre lifted up his eyes
      Into the moon's pale ray,
    And gazed upon her leopard-wise,
      Cruel and clear as day;

    He snarled in gluttony and fear:
      'The wind blows dismally,
    Jesu in storm my lambs be near,
      By-by, lullay, lullie!'

    And like a ravenous beast which sees
      The hunter's icy eye,
    So did this wretch in wrath confess
      Sweet Jesu's mastery.

    He lightly drew his greedy thumb
      From out that casement pale,
    And strode, enormous, swiftly home,
      Whinnying down the dale.




    DAME HICKORY


    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's sticks for your fire,
    Furze-twigs, and oak-twigs,
    And beech-twigs, and briar!'
    But when old Dame Hickory came for to see,
    She found 'twas the voice of the false faerie.

    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's meat for your broth,
    Goose-flesh, and hare's flesh,
    And pig's trotters both!'
    But when old Dame Hickory came for to see,
    She found 'twas the voice of the false faerie.

    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's a wolf at your door,
    His teeth grinning white,
    And his tongue wagging sore!'
    'Nay!' said Dame Hickory, 'ye false faerie!'
    But a wolf 'twas indeed, and famished was he.

    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's buds for your tomb,
    Bramble, and lavender,
    And rosemary bloom!'
    'Hush!' said Dame Hickory, 'ye false faerie,
    Ye cry like a wolf, ye do, and trouble poor me.'




    THE PILGRIM


    'Shall we carry now your bundle,
        You old grey man?

    Over hill and over meadow,
    Lighter than an owlet's shadow,
    We will whirl it through the air,
    Through blue regions shrill and bare;

    Shall we carry now your bundle,
        You old grey man?'

    The Pilgrim lifted up his eyes
    And saw three fiends, in the skies,
    Stooping o'er that lonely place
        Evil in form and face.

    'O leave me, leave me, leave me,
        Ye three wild fiends!

    Far it is my feet must wander,
    And my city lieth yonder;
    I must bear my bundle alone,
    Help nor solace suffer none:

    O leave me, leave me, leave me,
        Ye three wild fiends!'

    The fiends stared down with greedy eye,
    Fanning the chill air duskily,
    'Twixt their hoods they stoop and cry:--

    'Shall we smooth the path before you,
        You old grey man?

    Sprinkle it green with gilded showers,
    Strew it o'er with painted flowers?
    Shall we blow sweet airs on it,
    Lure the magpie there to flit?

    Shall we smooth the path before you,
        You old grey man?'

    'O silence, silence, silence!
        Ye three wild fiends!

    Over bog, and fen, and boulder,
    I must bear it on my shoulder,
    Beaten of wind, torn of briar,
    Smitten of rain, parched of fire:

    O silence, silence, silence!
        Ye three wild fiends!'

    It seemed a smoke obscured the air,
    Bright lightning quivered in the gloom,
    And a faint voice of thunder spake
    Far in the lone hill-hollows--'Come!'
    Then half in fury, half in dread,
    The fiends drew closer down and said:--

    'Grey old man but sleep awhile;
        Sad old man!

    Thorn, and dust, and ice, and heat;
    Tarry now, sit down and eat;
    Heat, and ice, and dust, and thorn;
    Stricken, footsore, parched, forlorn,--
    Juice of purple grape shall be
    Youth and solace unto thee.

    With sweet wire and reed we'll haunt you;
    Songs of the valley shall enchant you;
    Rest now, lest this night you die:
    Sweet be now our lullaby:

    'Grey old man, come sleep awhile,
        Stubborn old man!'

    The pilgrim crouches terrified
    At stooping hood, and glassy face,
    Gloating, evil, side by side;
    Terror and hate brood o'er the place;
    He flings his withered hands on high
    With a bitter, breaking cry:--

    'Leave me, leave me, leave me, leave me,
        Ye three wild fiends:
    If I lay me down in slumber,
      Then I lay me down in wrath;
    If I stir not in sweet dreaming,
      Then I wither in my path;
    If I hear sweet voices singing,
        'Tis a demon's lullaby,
    And in "hideous storm and terror"
        Wake but to die!'

    And even while he spake, the sun
    From the sweet hills pierced the gloom,
    Kindling th' affrighted fiends upon.
    Wild flapped their wings, as if in doom,
    He heard a dismal hooting laughter:--

    Nought but a little rain fell after,
    And from the cloud whither they flew
    A storm-sweet lark rose in the blue:
    And his bundle seemed of flowers
        In his solitary hours.




    THE GAGE


    'Lady Jane, O Lady Jane!
    Your hound hath broken bounds again,
      And chased my timorous deer, O;
        If him I see,
        That hour he'll dee;
      My brakes shall be his bier, O.'

    'Lord Aërie, Lord Aërie,
    My hound, I trow, is fleet and free,
      He's welcome to your deer, O;
        Shoot, shoot you may,
        He'll gang his way,
      Your threats we nothing fear, O.'

    He's fetched him in, he's fetched him in,
    Gone all his swiftness, all his din,
      White fang, and glowering eye, O:
        'Here is your beast,
        And now at least
      My herds in peace shall lie, O.'

    "In peace!" my lord, O mark me well!
    For what my jolly hound befell
      You shall sup twenty-fold, O!
        For every tooth
        Of his, i'sooth,
      A stag in pawn I hold, O.

    'Huntsman and horn, huntsman and horn,
    Shall scare your heaths and coverts lorn,
      Braying 'em shrill and clear, O;
        But lone and still
        Shall lift each hill,
      Each valley wan and sere, O.

    'Ride up you may, ride down you may,
    Lonely or trooped, by night or day,
      My hound shall haunt you ever:
        Bird, beast, and game
        Shall dread the same,
      The wild fish of your river.'

    Her cheek is like the angry rose,
    Her eye with wrath and pity flows:
      He gazes fierce and round, O,--
        'Dear Lord!' he says,
        'What loveliness
      To waste upon a hound, O.

    'I'd give my stags, my hills and dales,
    My stormcocks and my nightingales
      To have undone this deed, O;
        For deep beneath
        My heart is death
      Which for her love doth bleed, O.'

    Wanders he up, wanders he down,
    On foot, a-horse, by night and noon:
      His lands are bleak and drear, O;
        Forsook his dales
        Of nightingales,
      Forsook his moors of deer, O.

    Forsook his heart, ah me! of mirth;
    There's nothing lightsome left on earth:
      Only one scene is fain, O,
        Where far remote
        The moonbeams gloat,
      And sleeps the lovely Jane, O.

    Until an eve when lone he went,
    Gnawing his beard in dreariment,
      Lo! from a thicket hidden,
        Lovely as flower
        In April hour,
      Steps forth a form unbidden.

    'Get ye now down, Lord Aërie,
    I'm troubled so I'm like to dee,'
      She cries, 'twixt joy and grief, O;
        'The hound is dead,
        When all is said,
      But love is past belief, O.

    'Nights, nights I've lain your lands to see,
    Forlorn and still--and all for me,
      All for a foolish curse, O;
        Now here am I
        Come out to die,
      To live unlov'd is worse, O!'

    In faith, this lord, in that lone dale,
    Hears now a sweeter nightingale,
      And lairs a tend'rer deer, O;
        His sorrow goes
        Like mountain snows
      In waters sweet and clear, O!

    Let the hound bay in Shadowland,
    Tuning his ear to understand
      What voice hath tamed this Aërie;
        Chafe, chafe he may
        The stag all day,
      And never thirst nor weary.

    Now here he smells, now there he smells,
    Winding his voice along the dells,
      Till grey flows up the morn, O;
        Then hies again
        To Lady Jane,
      No longer now forlorn, O.

    Ay, as it were a bud, did break
    To loveliness for Aërie's sake,
      So she in beauty moving
        Rides at his hand
        Across his land,
      Beloved as well as loving.




    AS LUCY WENT A-WALKING


    As Lucy went a-walking one wintry morning fine,
    There sate three crows upon a bough, and three times three is nine:
    Then 'O!' said Lucy, in the snow, 'it's very plain to see
    A witch has been a-walking in the fields in front of me.'

    Then stept she light and heedfully across the frozen snow,
    And plucked a bunch of elder-twigs that near a pool did grow:
    And, by and by, she comes to seven shadows in one place
    All stretched by seven poplar-trees against the sun's bright face.

    She looks to left, she looks to right, and in the midst she sees
    A little well of water clear and frozen 'neath the trees;
    Then down beside its margent in the crusty snow she kneels,
    And hears a magic belfry a-ringing with sweet bells.

    But when the belfry ceased to sound yet nothing could she see,
    Save only frozen water in the shadow of the tree.
    But presently she lifted up her eyes along the snow,
    And sees a witch in brindled shawl a-frisking to and fro.

    Her shoes were buckled scarlet that capered to and fro,
    And all her rusty locks were wreathed with twisted mistletoe;
    But never a dint, or mark, or print, in the whiteness for to see,
    Though danced she high, though danced she fast, though danced she
        lissomely.

    It seemed 'twas diamonds in the air, or little flakes of frost;
    It seemed 'twas golden smoke around, or sunbeams lightly tost;
    It seemed an elfin music like to reeds and warblers rose:
    'Nay!' Lucy said, 'it is the wind that through the branches flows.'

    And as she peeps, and as she peeps, 'tis no more one, but three,
    And eye of bat, and downy wing of owl within the tree,
    And the bells of that sweet belfry a-pealing as before,
    And now it is not three she sees, and now it is not four.

    'O! who are ye,' sweet Lucy cries, 'that in a dreadful ring,
    All muffled up in brindled shawls, do caper, frisk, and spring?'
    'A witch and witches, one and nine,' they straight to her reply,
    And looked upon her narrowly, with green and needle eye.

    Then Lucy sees in clouds of gold sweet cherry-trees upgrow,
    And bushes of red roses that bloomed above the snow;
    She smells all faint the almond-boughs that blow so wild and fair,
    And doves with milky eyes ascend fluttering in the air.

    Clear flow'rs she sees, like tulip buds, go floating by like birds,
    With wavering tips that warbled sweetly strange enchanted words;
    And as with ropes of amethyst the boughs with lamps were hung,
    And clusters of green emeralds like fruit upon them clung.

    'O witches nine, ye dreadful nine, O witches seven and three!
    Whence come these wondrous things that I this Christmas morning see?'
    But straight, as in a clap, when she of Christmas says the word,
    Here is the snow, and there the sun, but never bloom nor bird;

    Nor warbling flame, nor gloaming-rope of amethyst there shows,
    Nor bunches of green emeralds, nor belfry, well, and rose,
    Nor cloud of gold, nor cherry-tree, nor witch in brindled shawl,
    But like a dream which vanishes, so vanished were they all.

    When Lucy sees, and only sees, three crows upon a bough,
    And earthly twigs, and bushes hidden white in driven snow,
    Then 'O!' said Lucy, 'three times three is nine--I plainly see
    Some witch has been a-walking in the fields in front of me.'




    THE ENGLISHMAN


    I met a sailor in the woods,
      A silver ring wore he,
    His hair hung black, his eyes shone blue,
      And thus he said to me:--

    'What country, say, of this round earth,
      What shore of what salt sea,
    Be this, my son, I wander in,
      And looks so strange to me?'

    Says I, 'O foreign sailorman,
      In England now you be,
    This is her wood, and this her sky,
      And that her roaring sea.'

    He lifts his voice yet louder,
      'What smell be this,' says he,
    'My nose on the sharp morning air
      Snuffs up so greedily?'

    Says I, 'It is wild roses
      Do smell so winsomely,
    And winy briar too,' says I,
      'That in these thickets be.'

    'And oh!' says he, 'what leetle bird
      Is singing in yon high tree,
    So every shrill and long-drawn note
      Like bubbles breaks in me?'

    Says I, 'It is the mavis
      That perches in the tree,
    And sings so shrill, and sings so sweet,
      When dawn comes up the sea.'

    At which he fell a-musing,
      And fixed his eye on me,
    As one alone 'twixt light and dark
      A spirit thinks to see

    'England!' he whispers soft and harsh,
      'England!' repeated he,
    'And briar, and rose, and mavis,
      A-singing in yon high tree.

    'Ye speak me true, my leetle son,
      So--so, it came to me,
    A-drifting landwards on a spar,
      And grey dawn on the sea.

    'Ay, ay, I could not be mistook;
      I knew them leafy trees,
    I knew that land so witcherie sweet,
      And that old noise of seas.

    'Though here I've sailed a score of years,
      And heard 'em, dream or wake,
    Lap small and hollow 'gainst my cheek,
      On sand and coral break;

    '"Yet now, my leetle son," says I,
      A-drifting on the wave,
    "That land I see so safe and green
      Is England, I believe.

    '"And that there wood is English wood,
      And this here cruel sea,
    The selfsame old blue ocean
      Years gone remembers me,

    "A-sitting with my bread and butter
      Down ahind yon chitterin' mill;
    And this same Marinere"--(that's me),
      "Is that same leetle Will!--

    "That very same wee leetle Will
      Eating his bread and butter there,
    A-looking on the broad blue sea
      Betwixt his yaller hair!"

    'And here be I, my son, throwed up
      Like corpses from the sea,
    Ships, stars, winds, tempests, pirates past,
      Yet leetle Will I be!'

    He said no more, that sailorman,
      But in a reverie
    Stared like the figure of a ship
      With painted eyes to sea.




    THE PHANTOM


    'Upstairs in the large closet, child,
      This side the blue-room door,
    Is an old Bible, bound in leather,
      Standing upon the floor;

    'Go with this taper, bring it me;
      Carry it on your arm;
    It is the book on many a sea
      Hath stilled the waves' alarm.'

    Late the hour, dark the night,
      The house is solitary,
    Feeble is a taper's light
      To light poor Ann to see.

    Her eyes are yet with visions bright
      Of sylph and river, flower and fay,
    Now through a narrow corridor
      She takes her lonely way.

    Vast shadows on the heedless walls
      Gigantic loom, stoop low:
    Each little hasty footfall calls
      Hollowly to and fro.

    In the dim solitude her heart
      Remembers tearlessly
    White winters when her mother was
      Her loving company.

    Now in the dark clear glass she sees
      A taper mocking hers,--
    A phantom face of light blue eyes,
      Reflecting phantom fears.

    Around her loom the vacant rooms,
      Wind the upward stairs,
    She climbs on into a loneliness
      Only her taper shares.

    Her grandmother is deaf with age;
      A garden of moonless trees
    Would answer not though she should cry
      In anguish on her knees.

    So that she scarcely heeds--so fast
      Her pent-up heart doth beat--
    When, faint along the corridor,
      Falleth the sound of feet:--

    Sounds lighter than silk slippers make
      Upon a ballroom floor, when sweet
    Violin and 'cello wake
      Music for twirling feet.

    O! in an old unfriendly house,
      What shapes may not conceal
    Their faces in the open day,
      At night abroad to steal?

    Even her taper seems with fear
      To languish small and blue;
    Far in the woods the winter wind
      Runs whistling through.

    A dreadful cold plucks at each hair,
      Her mouth is stretched to cry,
    But sudden, with a gush of joy,
      It narrows to a sigh.

    It is a wilding child which comes
      Swift through the corridor,
    Singing an old forgotten song,
      This ancient burden bore:--

    'Thorn, thorn, I wis,
    And roses twain,
      A red rose and a white,
    Stoop in the blossom, bee, and kiss
      A lonely child good-night.

    'Swim fish, sing bird,
    And sigh again,
      I that am lost am lone,
    Bee in the blossom never stirred
      Locks hid beneath a stone!'--

    Her eye was of the azure fire
      That hovers in wintry flame;
    Her raiment wild and yellow as furze
      That spouteth out the same;

    And in her hand she bore no flower,
      But on her head a wreath
    Of faded flag-flowers that did yet
      Smell sweetly after death.

    Clear was the light of loveliness
      That lit her face like rain;
    And sad the mouth that uttered
      Her immemorial strain.

        *     *     *     *

    Gloomy with night the corridor
      Is now that she is gone,
    Albeit this solitary child
      No longer seems alone.

    Fast though her taper dwindles down,
      Heavy and thick the tome,
    A beauty beyond fear to dim
      Haunts now her alien home.

    Ghosts in the world malignant, grim,
      Vex many a wood, and glen,
    And house, and pool,--the unquiet ghosts
      Of dead and restless men.

    But in her grannie's house this spirit--
      A child as lone as she--
    Pining for love not found on earth,
      Ann dreams again to see.

    Seated upon her tapestry-stool,
      Her fairy-book laid by,
    She gazes in the fire, knowing
      She hath sweet company.




    THE MILLER AND HIS SON


    A twangling harp for Mary,
      A silvery flute for John,
    And now we'll play the livelong day,
      'The Miller and his Son.'

    'The Miller went a-walking
      All in the forest high,
    He sees three doves a-flitting
      Against the dark blue sky:

    'Says he, "My son, now follow
      These doves so white and free,
    That cry above the forest,
      And surely cry to thee."

    "I go, my dearest Father,
      But O! I sadly fear,
    These doves so white will lead me far,
      But never bring me near."

    'He kisses the Miller,
      He cries, "Awhoop to ye!"
    And straightway through the forest
      Follows the wood-doves three.

    'There came a sound of weeping
      To the Miller in his Mill;
    Red roses in a thicket
      Bloomed over near his wheel;

    'Three stars shone wild and brightly
      Above the forest dim:
    But never his dearest son
      Returns again to him.

    'The cuckoo shall call "Cuckoo!"
      In vain along the vale,
    The linnet, and the blackbird,
      The mournful nightingale;

    'The Miller hears and sees not,
      A-thinking of his son;
    His toppling wheel is silent;
      His grinding done.

    '"Ye doves so white," he weepeth,
      "Ye roses on the tree,
    Ye stars that shine so brightly,
      Ye shine in vain for me!"

    'I bade him follow, follow,
      He said, "O Father dear,
    These doves so white will lead me far
      But never bring me near!"'

    A twangling harp for Mary,
      A silvery flute for John,
    And now we'll play the livelong day,
      'The Miller and his Son.'




    DOWN-ADOWN-DERRY


    Down-adown-derry,
    Sweet Annie Maroon,
    Gathering daisies
    In the meadows of Doone,
    Sees a white fairy
    Skip buxom and free
    Where the waters go brawling
    In rills to the sea;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    Sweet Annie Maroon
    Through the green grasses
    Runs fleetly and soon,
    And lo! on a lily
    She sees one recline
    Whose eyes in her wee face
    Like the water-sparks shine;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    And shrill was her tune:--
    'Come to my water-house,
    Annie Maroon,
    Come in your pink gown,
    Your curls on your head,
    To wear the white samite
    And rubies instead';
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    'Down-adown-derry,
    Lean fish of the sea,
    Bring lanthorns for feasting
    The gay Faërie;
    And it's dancing on sand 'tis
    That's smoother than wool;--
    Foam-fruit and wild honey
    To pleasure you full';
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    Sweet Annie Maroon
    Looked large on the fairy
    Curled wan as the moon;
    And all the grey ripples
    To the Mill racing by,
    With harps and with timbrels
    Did ringing reply;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    'Down-adown-derry,'
    Sang the Fairy of Doone,
    Piercing the heart of
    Sweet Annie Maroon;
    And lo! when like roses
    The clouds of the sun
    Faded at dusk, gone
    Was Annie Maroon;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    The daisies are few;
    Frost twinkles powd'ry
    In haunts of the dew;
    Only the robin
    Perched on a white thorn,
    Can comfort the heart of
    A father forlorn;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    There's snow in the air;
    Ice where the lily
    Bloomed waxen and fair;
    He may call o'er the water,
    Cry--cry through the Mill,
    But Annie Maroon, alas!
    Answer ne'er will;
        Singing down-adown-derry.




    THE SUPPER


    A wolf he pricks with eyes of fire
    Across the night's o'ercrusted snows,
        Seeking his prey,
        He pads his way
    Where Jane benighted goes,
      Where Jane benighted goes.

    He curdles the bleak air with ire,
    Ruffling his hoary raiment through,
        And lo! he sees
        Beneath the trees
    Where Jane's light footsteps go,
      Where Jane's light footsteps go.

    No hound peals thus in wicked joy,
    He snaps his muzzle in the snows,
        His five-clawed feet
        Do scamper fleet
    Where Jane's bright lanthorn shows,
      Where Jane's bright lanthorn shows.

    Now his greed's green doth gaze unseen
    On a pure face of wilding rose,
        Her amber eyes
        In fear's surprise
    Watch largely as she goes,
      Watch largely as she goes.

    Salt wells his hunger in his jaws,
    His lust it revels to and fro,
        Yet small beneath
        A soft voice saith,
    'Jane shall in safety go,
      Jane shall in safety go.'

    He lurched as if a fiery lash
    Had scourged his hide, and through and through,
        His furious eyes
        O'erscanned the skies,
    But nearer dared not go,
      But nearer dared not go.

    He reared like wild Bucephalus,
    His fangs like spears in him uprose,
        Ev'n to the town
        Jane's flitting gown
    He grins on as she goes,
      He grins on as she goes.

    In fierce lament he howls amain,
    He scampers, marvelling in his throes
        What brought him there
        To sup on air,
    While Jane unarmèd goes,
      While Jane unarmèd goes.




    THE ISLE OF LONE


    Three dwarfs there were which lived on an isle,
      And the name of the isle was Lone,
    And the names of the dwarfs were Alliolyle,
      Lallerie, Muziomone.

    Alliolyle was green of een,
      Lallerie light of locks,
    Muziomone was mild of mien,
      As ewes in April flocks.

    Their house was small and sweet of the sea,
      And pale as the Malmsey wine;
    Their bowls were three, and their beds were three,
      And their nightcaps white were nine.

    Their beds were of the holly-wood,
      Their combs of the tortoiseshell,
    Their mirrors clear as wintry flood,
      Frozen dark and snell.

    So each would lie on his plumpy pillow,
      The moon for company,
    And hear the parrot scream to the billow,
      And the billow roar reply.--

    Sulphur parrots, and parrots red,
      Scarlet, and flame, and green;
    And five-foot apes that jargonèd
      In feathery-tufted treen.

    And oh, or ever the dawning shed
      On dreams a narrow flame,
    Three gaping dwarfs gat out of bed
      And gazed upon the same.

    At dawn they fished, at noon they snared
      Young foxes in the dells,
    At even on dew-berries they fared,
      And blew in their twisted shells.

    Dark was the sea they gambolled in,
      And thick with silver fish,
    Dark as green glass blown clear and thin
      To be a monarch's dish.

    They sate to sup in a jasmine bower,
      Lit pale with flies of fire,
    Their bowls the hue of the iris-flower,
      And lemon their attire.

    Sweet wine in little cups they sipped,
      And golden honeycomb
    Into their bowls of cream they dipped,
      Whipt light and white as foam.

    Alliolyle, where the salt sea flows,
      Taught three old apes to sing,
    And there to the moon, like a full-blown rose,
      They capered in a ring.

    But down to the shore skipped Lallerie,
      His parrot on his thumb,
    And the twain they scritched in mockery,
      While the dancers go and come.

    So, alas! in the evening, rosy and still,
      Light-haired Lallerie
    Bitterly quarrelled with Alliolyle
      By the yellow-sanded sea.

    The rising moon swam sweet and large
      Before their furious eyes,
    And they rolled and rolled to the coral marge
      Where the surf for ever cries.

    Too late, too late, comes Muziomone:
      Clear in the clear green sea
    Alliolyle lies not alone,
      But clasped with Lallerie.

    He blows on his shell plaintive notes;
      Ape, parraquito, bee
    Flock where a shoe on the salt wave floats,--
      The shoe of Lallerie.

    He fetches nightcaps, one and nine,
      Grey apes he dowers three,
    His house as fair as the Malmsey wine
      Seems sad as cypress-tree.

    Three bowls he brims with honeycomb
      To feast the bumble bees,
    Saying, 'O bees, be this your home,
      For grief is on the seas!'

    He sate him lone in a coral grot,
      At the flowing of the tide;
    When ebbed the billow, there was not,
      Save coral, aught beside.

    So hairy apes in three white beds,
      And nightcaps, one and nine,
    On moonlit pillows lay three heads
      Bemused with dwarfish wine.

    A tomb of coral, the dirge of bee,
      The grey apes' guttural groan
    For Alliolyle, for Lallerie,
      For thee, O Muziomone!




    THE SLEEPING BEAUTY


    The scent of bramble sweets the air,
      Amid her folded sheets she lies,
    The gold of evening in her hair,
      The blue of morn shut in her eyes.

    How many a changing moon hath lit
      The unchanging roses of her face!
    Her mirror ever broods on it
      In silver stillness of the days.

    Oft flits the moth on filmy wings
      Into his solitary lair;
    Shrill evensong the cricket sings
      From some still shadow in her hair.

    In heat, in snow, in wind, in flood,
      She sleeps in lovely loneliness,
    Half folded like an April bud
      On winter-haunted trees.




    THE HORN


    Hark! is that a horn I hear,
      In cloudland winding sweet--
    And bell-like clash of bridle-rein,
      And silver-shod light feet?

    Is it the elfin laughter of
      Fairies riding faint and high,
    'Neath the branches of the moon,
      Straying through the starry sky?

    Is it in the globèd dew
      Such sweet melodies may fall?
    Wood and valley--all are still,
      Hushed the shepherd's call.

    Hark! is that a horn I hear
      In cloudland winding sweet?
    Or gloomy goblins marching out
      Their captain Puck to greet?




    CAPTAIN LEAN


    Out of the East a hurricane
      Swept down on Captain Lean--
    That mariner and gentleman
      Will ne'er again be seen.

    He sailed his ship against the foes
      Of his own country dear,
    But now in the trough of the billows
      An aimless course doth steer.

    Powder was violets to his nostril,
      Sweet the din of the fighting-line,
    Now he is flotsam on the seas,
      And his bones are bleached with brine.

    The stars move up along the sky,
      The moon she shines so bright,
    And in that solitude the foam
      Sparkles unearthly white.

    This is the tomb of Captain Lean,
      Would a straiter please his soul?
    I trow he sleeps in peace,
      Howsoever the billows roll!




    THE PORTRAIT OF A WARRIOR


    His brow is seamed with line and scar;
      His cheek is red and dark as wine;
    The fires as of a Northern star
      Beneath his cap of sable shine.

    His right hand, bared of leathern glove,
      Hangs open like an iron gin,
    You stoop to see his pulses move,
      To hear the blood sweep out and in.

    He looks some king, so solitary
      In earnest thought he seems to stand,
    As if across a lonely sea
      He gazed impatient of the land.

    Out of the noisy centuries
      The foolish and the fearful fade;
    Yet burn unquenched these warrior eyes,
      Time hath not dimmed nor death dismayed.




    HAUNTED


    From out the wood I watched them shine,--
      The windows of the haunted house,
    Now ruddy as enchanted wine,
      Now dim as flittermouse.

    There went a thin voice piping airs
      Along the grey and crooked walks,--
    A garden of thistledown and tares,
      Bright leaves, and giant stalks.

    The twilight rain shone at its gates,
      Where long-leaved grass in shadow grew;
    And black in silence to her mates
      A voiceless raven flew.

    Lichen and moss the lone stones greened,
      Green paths led lightly to its door,
    Keen from her lair the spider leaned,
      And dusk to darkness wore.

    Amidst the sedge a whisper ran,
      The West shut down a heavy eye,
    And like last tapers, few and wan,
      The watch-stars kindled in the sky.




    THE RAVEN'S TOMB


    'Build me my tomb,' the Raven said,
    'Within the dark yew-tree,
    So in the Autumn yewberries
    Sad lamps may burn for me.
    Summon the haunted beetle,
    From twilight bud and bloom,
    To drone a gloomy dirge for me
    At dusk above my tomb.
    Beseech ye too the glowworm
    To bear her cloudy flame,
    Where the small, flickering bats resort,
    Whistling in tears my name.
    Let the round dew a whisper make,
    Welling on twig and thorn;
    And only the grey cock at night
    Call through his silver horn.
    And you, dear sisters, don your black
    For ever and a day,
    To show how sweet a raven
    In his tomb is laid away.'




    THE CHRISTENING


    The bells chime clear,
    Soon will the sun behind the hills sink down;
    Come, little Ann, your baby brother dear
    Lies in his christening-gown.

    His godparents
    Are all across the fields stepped on before,
    And wait beneath the crumbling monuments,
    This side the old church door.

    Your mammie dear
    Leans frail and lovely on your daddie's arm;
    Watching her chick, 'twixt happiness and fear,
    Lest he should come to harm.

    All to be blest
    Full soon in the clear heavenly water, he
    Sleeps on unwitting of't, his little breast
    Heaving so tenderly.

    I carried you,
    My little Ann, long since on this same quest,
    And from the painted windows a pale hue
    Lit golden on your breast;

    And then you woke,
    Chill as the holy water trickled down,
    And, weeping, cast the window a strange look,
    Half smile, half infant frown.

    I scarce could hear
    The larks a-singing in the green meadows,
    'Twas summertide, and budding far and near
    The hedges thick with rose.

    And now you're grown
    A little girl, and this same helpless mite
    Is come like such another bud half-blown,
    Out of the wintry night.

    Time flies, time flies!
    And yet, bless me! 'tis little changed am I;
    May Jesu keep from tears those infant eyes,
    Be love their lullaby!




    THE MOTHER BIRD


    Through the green twilight of a hedge
    I peered, with cheek on the cool leaves pressed,
    And spied a bird upon a nest:
    Two eyes she had beseeching me
    Meekly and brave, and her brown breast
    Throbb'd hot and quick above her heart;
    And then she oped her dagger bill,--
    'Twas not a chirp, as sparrows pipe
    At break of day; 'twas not a trill,
    As falters through the quiet even;
    But one sharp solitary note,
    One desperate, fierce, and vivid cry
    Of valiant tears, and hopeless joy,
    One passionate note of victory:
    Off, like a fool afraid, I sneaked,
    Smiling the smile the fool smiles best,
    At the mother bird in the secret hedge
    Patient upon her lonely nest.




    THE CHILD IN THE STORY GOES TO BED


    I prythee, Nurse, come smooth my hair,
      And prythee, Nurse, unloose my shoe,
    And trimly turn my silken sheet
      Upon my quilt of gentle blue.

    My pillow sweet of lavender
      Smooth with an amiable hand,
    And may the dark pass peacefully by
      As in the hour-glass droops the sand.

    Prepare my cornered manchet sweet,
      And in my little crystal cup
    Pour out the blithe and flowering mead
      That forthwith I may sup.

    Withdraw my curtains from the night,
      And let the crispèd crescent shine
    Upon my eyelids while I sleep,
      And soothe me with her beams benign.

    From far-away there streams the singing
      Of the mellifluent nightingale,--
    Surely if goblins hear her lay,
      They shall not o'er my peace prevail.

    Now quench my silver lamp, prythee,
      And bid the harpers harp that tune
    Fairies which haunt the meadowlands
      Sing clearly to the stars of June.

    And bid them play, though I in dreams
      No longer heed their pining strains,
    For I would not to silence wake
      When slumber o'er my senses wanes.

    You Angels bright who me defend,
      Enshadow me with curvèd wing,
    And keep me in the darksome night
      Till dawn another day do bring.




    THE CHILD IN THE STORY AWAKES


    The light of dawn rose on my dreams,
      And from afar I seemed to hear
    In sleep the mellow blackbird call
      Hollow and sweet and clear.

    I prythee, Nurse, my casement open,
      Wildly the garden peals with singing,
    And hooting through the dewy pines
      The goblins all are winging.

    O listen the droning of the bees,
      That in the roses take delight!
    And see a cloud stays in the blue
      Like an angel still and bright.

    The gentle sky is spread like silk,
      And, Nurse, the moon doth languish there,
    As if it were a perfect jewel
      In the morning's soft-spun hair.

    The greyness of the distant hills
      Is silvered in the lucid East,
    See, now the sheeny-plumèd cock
      Wags haughtily his crest.

    'O come you out, O come you out,
      Lily, and lavender, and lime;
    The kingcup swings his golden bell,
      And plumpy cherries drum the time.

    'O come you out, O come you out!
      Roses, and dew, and mignonette,
    The sun is in the steep blue sky,
      Sweetly the morning star is set.'




    THE LAMPLIGHTER


    When the light of day declineth,
    And a swift angel through the sky
    Kindleth God's tapers clear,
    With ashen staff the lamplighter
    Passeth along the darkling streets
    To light our earthly lamps;

    Lest, prowling in the darkness,
    The thief should haunt with quiet tread,
    Or men on evil errands set;
    Or wayfarers be benighted;
    Or neighbours bent from house to house
    Should need a guiding torch.

    He is like a needlewoman
    Who deftly on a sable hem
    Stitches in gleaming jewels;
    Or, haply, he is like a hero,
    Whose bright deeds on the long journey
    Are beacons on our way.

    And when in the East cometh morning,
    And the broad splendour of the sun,
    Then, with the tune of little birds
    Ringing on high, the lamplighter
    Passeth by each quiet house,
    And putteth out the lamps.




    CECIL


    Ye little elves, who haunt sweet dells,
    Where flowers with the dew commune,
    I pray you hush the child, Cecil,
        With windlike song.

    O little elves, so white she lieth,
    Each eyelid gentler than the flow'r
    Of the bramble, and her fleecy hair
        Like smoke of gold.

    O little elves, her hands and feet
    The angels muse upon, and God
    Hath shut a glimpse of Paradise
        In each blue eye.

    O little elves, her tiny body
    Like a white flake of snow it is,
    Drooping upon the pale green hood
        Of the chill snowdrop.

    O little elves, with elderflower,
    And pimpernel, and the white hawthorn,
    Sprinkle the journey of her dreams:
        And, little elves,

    Call to her magically sweet,
    Lest of her very tenderness
    She do forsake this rough brown earth
        And return to us no more.




    I MET AT EVE


    I met at eve the Prince of Sleep,
    His was a still and lovely face,
    He wandered through a valley steep
      Lovely in a lonely place.

    His garb was grey of lavender,
    About his brows a poppy-wreath
    Burned like dim coals, and everywhere
      The air was sweeter for his breath.

    His twilight feet no sandals wore,
    His eyes shone faint in their own flame,
    Fair moths that gloomed his steps before
      Seemed letters of his lovely name.

    His house is in the mountain ways,
    A phantom house of misty walls,
    Whose golden flocks at evening graze,
      And witch the moon with muffled calls.

    Upwelling from his shadowy springs
    Sweet waters shake a trembling sound,
    There flit the hoot-owl's silent wings,
      There hath his web the silkworm wound.

    Dark in his pools clear visions lurk,
    And rosy, as with morning buds,
    Along his dales of broom and birk
      Dreams haunt his solitary woods.

    I met at eve the Prince of Sleep,
    His was a still and lovely face,
    He wandered through a valley steep,
      Lovely in a lonely place.




    LULLABY


    Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!
    The singing mouse sings plaintively,
    The sweet night-bird in the chesnut-tree--
    They sing together, bird and mouse,
    In starlight, in darkness, lonely, sweet,
    The wild notes and the faint notes meet--
      Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!

    Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!
    Amid the lilies floats the moth,
    The mole along his galleries goeth
    In the dark earth; the summer moon
    Looks like a shepherd through the pane
    Seeking his feeble lamb again--
      Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!

    Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!
    Time comes to keep night-watch with thee
    Nodding with roses; and the sea
    Saith 'Peace! Peace!' amid his foam
    White as thy night-clothes; 'O be still!'
    The wind cries up the whisp'ring hill--
      Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!




    ENVOY


    There clung three roses to a stem,
    Did all their hues of summer don,
    But came a wind and troubled them,
      And all were gone.

    I heard three bells in unison
    Clap out some transient heart's delight,
    Time and the hour brought silence on
      And the dark night.

    Doth not Orion even set!
    O love, love, prove true alone,
    Till youthful hearts ev'n love forget,
      Then, child, begone!

 [Illustration]

 A kitten went a-walking
   One morning in July,
 And idly fell a-talking
   With a great big butterfly.

 The kitten's tone was airy,
   The butterfly would scoff;
 When there came along a fairy
   Who whisked his wings right off.

 And then--for it is written
   Fairies can do such things--
 Upon the startled kitten
   She stuck the yellow wings.

 [Illustration]

 The kitten felt a quiver,
   She rose into the air,
 Then flew down to the river
   To view her image there.

 With fear her heart was smitten,
   And she began to cry,
 "Am I a butter-kitten?
   Or just a kitten-fly?"




 Two Old Kings


 [Illustration]

 Oh! the King of Kanoodledum
 And the King of Kanoodledee,
   They went to sea
   In a jigamaree--
 A full-rigged jigamaree.

 And one king couldn't steer,
 And the other, no more could he;
   So they both upset
   And they both got wet,
 As wet as wet could be.

 [Illustration]

 And one king couldn't swim
 And the other, he couldn't, too;
   So they had to float,
   While their empty boat
 Danced away o'er the sea so blue.

 Then the King of Kanoodledum
 He turned a trifle pale,
   And so did he
   Of Kanoodledee,
 But they saw a passing sail!

 And one king screamed like fun
 And the other king screeched like mad,
   And a boat was lowered
   And took them aboard;
 And, my! but those kings were glad!

 [Illustration]




 [Illustration]

 A Day Dream


 Polly's patchwork--oh, dear me!--
 Truly is a sight to see.
 Rumpled, crumpled, soiled, and frayed--
 Will the quilt be ever made?
 See the stitches yawning wide--
 Can it be that Polly _tried_?

 Some are right and some are wrong,
 Some too short and some too long,
 Some too loose and some too tight;
 Grimy smudges on the white,
 And a tiny spot of red,
 Where poor Polly's finger bled.
 Strange such pretty, dainty blocks--
 Bits of Polly's summer frocks--
 Should have proved so hard to sew,
 And the cause of so much woe!

 One day it was _very_ hot,
 And the thread got in a knot,
 Drew the seam up in a heap--
 Polly calmly fell asleep.
 Then she had a lovely dream;
 Straight and even was the seam,
 Pure and spotless was the white;
 All the blocks were finished quite--
 Each joined to another one.
 Lo, behold! the quilt was done,--
 Lined and quilted,--and it seemed
 To cover Polly as she dreamed!




 Our Club


 We're going to have the mostest fun!
   It's going to be a club;
 And no one can belong to it
   But Dot and me and Bub.

 [Illustration]

 We thought we'd have a Reading Club,
   But couldn't 'cause, you see,
 Not one of us knows how to read--
   Not Dot nor Bub nor me.

 And then we said a Sewing Club,
   But thought we'd better not;
 'Cause none of us knows how to sew--
   Not me nor Bub nor Dot.

 And so it's just a Playing Club,
   We play till time for tea;
 And, oh, we have the bestest times!
   Just Dot and Bub and me.




 Puzzled


 There lived in ancient Scribbletown a wise old writer-man,
 Whose name was Homer Cicero Demosthenes McCann.
 He'd written treatises and themes till, "For a change," he said,
 "I think I'll write a children's book before I go to bed."

 [Illustration]

 He pulled down all his musty tomes in Latin and in Greek;
 Consulted cyclopædias and manuscripts antique,
 Essays in Anthropology, studies in counterpoise--
 "For these," he said, "are useful lore for little girls and boys."

 He scribbled hard, and scribbled fast, he burned the midnight oil,
 And when he reached "The End" he felt rewarded for his toil;
 He said, "This charming Children's Book is greatly to my credit."
 And now he's sorely puzzled that no child has ever read it.




 [Illustration]

 An Intercepted Valentine


 Little Bo-Peep, will you be mine?
 I want you for my Valentine.
 You are my choice of all the girls,
 With your blushing cheeks and your fluttering curls,
 With your ribbons gay and your kirtle neat,
 None other is so fair and sweet.
 Little Bo-Peep, let's run away,
 And marry each other on Midsummer Day;
 And ever to you I'll be fond and true,

            Your faithful Valentine,
                    LITTLE BOY BLUE.




 A Long-Felt Want


[Illustration]

 One day wee Willie and his dog
   Sprawled on the nursery floor.
 He had a florist's catalogue,
   And turned the pages o'er,

 Till all at once he gave a spring,
   "Hurrah!" he cried with joy;
 "Mamma, here's just the very thing
   To give your little boy!

 "For when we fellows go to school,
   We lose our things, you know;
 And in that little vestibule
   They do get mixed up so.

 "And as you often say you can't
   Take care of 'em for me,
 Why don't you buy a _rubber plant_,
   And an _umbrella tree_?"




 The Musical Carp


 There once was a corpulent carp
 Who wanted to play on a harp,
     But to his chagrin
     So short was his fin
 That he couldn't reach up to C sharp.

 [Illustration]




 The Intelligent Hen


 [Illustration]

 'Twas long ago,--a year or so,--
   In a barnyard by the sea,
 That an old hen lived whom you may know
   By the name of Fiddle-de-dee.
 She scratched around in the sand all day,
   For a lively old hen was she.

 And then do you know, it happened this way
   In that barnyard by the sea;
 A great wise owl came down one day,
   And hooted at Fiddle-de-dee,
   Just hooted at Fiddle-de-dee.
 And he cried, "Hi! Hi! old hen, I say!
   You're provincial, it seems to me!"

 "Why, what do you mean?" cried the old red hen,
   As mad as hops was she.
 "Oh, I've been 'round among great men,
   In the world where the great men be.
 And none of them scratch with their claws like you,
   They write with a quill like me."

 Now very few people could get ahead
   Of that old hen, Fiddle-de-dee.
 She went and hunted the posy-bed,
   And returned in triumphant glee.
 And ever since then, that little red hen,
 She writes with a jonquil pen, quil pen,
   She writes with a jonquil pen.

 [Illustration]




 [Illustration]

 The Happy Hyena


 There once was a happy Hyena
 Who played on an old concertina.
     He dressed very well,
     And in his lapel
 He carelessly stuck a verbena.




 [Illustration]

 A Great Lady


 This is the Queen of Nonsense Land,
 She wears her bonnet on her hand;
 She carpets her ceilings and frescos her floors,
 She eats on her windows and sleeps on her doors.
 Oh, ho! Oh, ho! to think there could be
 A lady so silly-down-dilly as she!

 She goes for a walk on an ocean wave,
 She fishes for cats in a coral cave;
 She drinks from an empty glass of milk,
 And lines her potato trees with silk.
 I'm sure that fornever and never was seen
 So foolish a thing as the Nonsense Queen!

 She ordered a wig for a blue bottle fly,
 And she wrote a note to a pumpkin pie;
 She makes all the oysters wear emerald rings,
 And does dozens of other nonsensible things.
 Oh! the scatterbrained, shatterbrained lady so grand,
 Her Royal Skyhighness of Nonsense Land!




 Opulent Ollie


 One Saturday opulent Ollie
 Thought he'd go for a ride on the trolley;
   But his pennies were few,--
   He only had two,--
 So he went and made mud-pies with Polly.

 [Illustration]




 The Two Bears


 Prince Curlilocks remarked one day
   To Princess Dimplecheek,
 "I haven't had a real good play
   For more than 'most a week."

 Said Princess Dimplecheek, "My dear,
   Your majesty forgets--
 This morning we played grenadier
   With grandpa's epaulets.

 "And yesterday we sailed to Spain--
   We both were pirates bold,
 And braved the wild and raging main
   To seek for hidden gold."

 "True," said the prince; "I mind me well--
   Right hardily we fought,
 And stormed a massive citadel
   To gain the prize we sought.

 "But if your ladyship agrees,
   Methinks we'll go upstairs
 And build a waste of arctic seas,
   And we'll be polar bears."

 "Yes, if you'll promise not to bite,"
   Fair Dimplecheek replied,
 Already half-way up the flight,
   His highness by her side.

 "Princess, on that far window-seat,
   Go, sit thee down and wait,
 While I ask nursie for a sheet,
   Or maybe six or eight."

 A pile of sheets his highness brought.
   "Dear princess, pray take these;
 Although our path with danger's fraught,
   We'll reach the polar seas."

 Two furry rugs his lordship bore,
   Two pairs of mittens white;
 He threw them on the nursery floor
   And shouted with delight.

 He spread those sheets--the funny boy--
   O'er table, floor, and chair.
 "Princess," said he, "don't you enjoy
   This frosty, bracing air?

 "These snowy sheets are fields of ice,
   This is an iceberg grim."
 "Yes, dear, I think it's very nice,"
   She said, and smiled at him.

 And then they donned the rugs of fur,
   The mittens, too, they wore;
 And Curlilocks remarked to her,
   "Now you must roar and roar."

 [Illustration]

 Dimplecheek looked out from the cowl
   Formed by her furry rug.
 "I'm 'fraid of bears that only growl--
   I like the kind that hug."




 The Very Merry Voyage of the Macaroni Man


 This figure here before you is a Macaroni Man,
 Who is built, as you may notice, on a most ingenious plan.
 His skeleton, I beg to state, is made of hairpins three,
 Which are bent and curved and twisted to a marvellous degree.
 His coat-sleeves and his trouser-legs, his head and eke his waist
 Are made of superfine imported macaroni paste.
 And if you care to listen, you may hear the thrilling tale
 Of the merry Macaroni Man's extraordinary sail.
 One sunny day he started for a voyage in his yacht,
 His anxious mother called to him, and said, "You'd better not!
 Although the sun is shining bright, I fear that it may rain;
 And don't you think, my darling boy, you'd better take the train?"
 "Oh, no," said he, "no clouds I see,--the sky is blue and clear,
 I will return in time for tea--good-by, my mother  dear."

 [Illustration]

 Full merrily he started off, the day was fine and fair,
 And to his great delight he found no dampness in the air.
 You know if he gets wet, a Macaroni Man is spoiled,
 And if he stands too near the steam, of course he may get boiled.
 But our hero used precautions,--carefully he shunned the spray,--
 And when the steam blew toward him, he just steered the other way.
 Now, as the breeze was from the land, his course lay out to sea;
 He sailed so far that he felt sure he would be late for tea.
 He sailed, and sailed, and sailed, and sailed,--
               he feared the dew would fall--
 He tried to turn,--but oh, that steam! it would not do at all!

 [Illustration]

 A single puff blew toward him, and it nearly cooked his face!
 The mournful Macaroni Man felt sadly out of place.
 But a happy thought occurred to him, "Ha, ha,--ho, ho!" said he,--
 "I'll just sail on around the world,--and then, it seems to me,
 I'll reach my home (according to a careful estimate)
 In time for tea, although I'll be perhaps a trifle late."
 Then merrily his gallant ship sped o'er the bounding main,
 Quickly he crossed the ocean wide, he flew by France and Spain;
 Covered the Mediterranean, spanned the Suez Canal,--
 "I'll reach my home to-night," he thought, "oh, yes, I'm sure I shall."
 He skimmed the Red Sea like a bird,--the Indian Ocean crossed
 (But once, in Oceanica, he feared that he was lost).

 [Illustration]

 He passed Australia on the fly,--cut over Capricorn,
 And as the sunset gun he heard, he swung around Cape Horn.
 Still at full speed, he sailed due north, he rounded Cape St. Roque,
 Crossed the equator, and found out the Gulf Stream was no joke.
 He coasted by the seaboard States. Hurrah! all danger past,
 Quickly he sailed the last few miles and reached his home at last;
 His mother welcomed him, and said, "I'm glad there was no shower;
 But hurry in, my bonny boy, I've waited tea an hour."

 [Illustration]




 The 4.04 Train


 "There's a train at 4.04," said Miss Jenny;
 "Four tickets I'll take. Have you any?"
     Said the man at the door:
     "Not four for 4.04,
 For four for 4.04 is too many."




 [Illustration]

 A Valuable Gift


 Old Father Time, one day
 In his study, so they say,
   Was indulging in a surreptitious nap,
 When from his drowsy dreams
 He was wakened, as it seems,
   By a timid but persistent little rap.

 He yawned and rubbed his eyes
 In indolent surprise,
   Then slowly he arose from where he sat;
 He opened wide his door,
 And nearly tumbled o'er
   The figure that stood waiting on the mat.

 A tiny little dog,
 With excitement all agog,
   And angry eyes that seemed to flash and glower.
 His manner was polite,
 But he said, "I claim my right!
   And I've called, sir, to demand of you my hour."

 "Your what?" the old man said,
 As he shook his puzzled head;
   And the pertinacious puppy spoke with force:
 "Well, sir, they often say,
 'Every dog must have his day,'
   So a puppy ought to have an hour, of course!"

 [Illustration]

 The old man shook with glee,
 But he said obligingly,
   "The dog days are all gone, I grieve to say;
 But since you've come so far,
 And so mannerly you are,
   I'll give you just an hour--to get away."




 [Illustration]

 The Grandiloquent Goat


 A very grandiloquent Goat
 Sat down to a gay table d'hôte;
   He ate all the corks,
   The knives and the forks,
 Remarking: "On these things I dote."

 Then, before his repast he began,
 While pausing the menu to scan,
   He said: "Corn, if you please,
   And tomatoes and pease,
 I'd like to have served in the can."




 How the Cat was Belled


 A fable told by La Fontaine,
   Two centuries or more ago,
 Describes some rats who would arraign
   A cat, their direst foe,
 Who killed so many rats
   And caused the deepest woe,
 This Catiline of cats.

 The poor rats were at their wits' end
 Their homes and families to defend;
   And as a last resort
   They took the case to court.

 It seems they called a caucus wise
 Of rats of every age and size,
   And then their dean,
   With sapient mien,
 A very Solon of a rat,
 Said it was best to bell the cat.

 The quaint old tale goes on to tell
 How this plan would have worked quite well,
   But, somehow, flaws
   Appeared, because
 No one would hang the bell.

 Though there the ancient fable ends,
 Later report the tale extends,
   No longer is the truth withheld;
     Developments appear,
     And so you have it here.
       For the first time
       Set down in rhyme
   Just how that cat was belled.

 The council, as 'twas getting late,
 Was just about to separate,
   When suddenly a rat arose
   Who said he could a plan propose
     Which would, he thought, succeed
     And meet their urgent need.

 Now as this rat was very small,
 And had no dignity at all,
   Although his plan was well advised,
   We really need not be surprised
 That all the rats of riper years
 Expressed the gravest doubts and fears;
     Till suddenly
     He said, said he,
 "If you will leave it all to me,
       I will avow
       Three days from now
 That you shall all be free."
 The solemn council then adjourned.
 Each rat to home and fireside turned;
   But each shook his wise head
   And to his neighbor said:
 "It is a dangerous job, in truth,
 Though it seems naught to headstrong youth."

 Now young Sir Rat we next behold,
 With manner brave and visage bold,
     Go marching down
     To London town,
 Where wondrous things are sold.
     We see him stop
     At a large shop,
 And with the bland clerk's courteous aid
 This was the purchase that he made:
 A bicycle of finest make,
 With modern gear and patent brake,
 Pedometer, pneumatic tire,
 And spokes that looked like silver wire,
     A lantern bright
     To shine at night,
 Enamel finish, nickel plate,
 And all improvements up to date.
 Said sly Sir Rat: "It suits me well,
 Especially that sweet-toned _bell_."

 [Illustration]

 The shades of night were falling fast
 When Sir Rat turned toward home at last.
 The neighbors watched him as he passed
 And said: "What is that queer-shaped thing?
 Surely that can't be made to ring."
   Sir Rat went on, nor stayed
   To hear the jests they made;
 And just outside the old cat's gate
 He stopped and boldly braved his fate,
   For if that cat
   Should smell a rat
 How quickly he'd come out and catch him,
 And with what gusto he'd despatch him!
 Sir Rat, against the picket-fence
 Leaned the machine, then hurried hence,
   And hid himself with glee,
   And waited breathlessly
     To see what that
     Cantankerous cat
 Would say, when in the twilight dim
 He saw that brightly shining rim.

   Sir Rat, though hidden quite,
   And safely out of sight,
 Had scarcely time to wink his eye,
 When Mr. Cat came sauntering by.

     "Ha! Ha!" said he,
     "What's this I see,
 A bicycle! and just my size!
 Well, this, indeed, is a surprise!
     I'll confiscate
     This treasure great;
 How quickly I'll fly o'er the ground
 When I pursue my hunting round!"

 He mounted it with eager haste,
 It suited well his sporting taste;
   He guided it at will,
   And used the brake with skill,
 He grasped the handle-bars, and then--
 You see it was his custom when
 He did a thing, to do it well--
 Of course he used the clear-toned bell!

 [Illustration]

 Victory now! the deed is done!
 No longer at the set of sun
 The rats fly shrieking to their nests,
 They saunter round with merry jests
   And ne'er a thought of fear,
     Knowing full well
     They'll hear the bell
   When Mr. Cat draws near.

 [Illustration]

 And young Sir Rat who did the deed,
 Whose cleverness relieved their need,
   His wondrous enterprise
   Was lauded to the skies.
 And everywhere his name
 Was hailed with shouts of fame.

 In difficulties, oft we see
 Modern improvements frequently
 Will prove a happy remedy.




 The Rhyme of Triangular Tommy


 [Illustration]

 Triangular Tommy, one morning in May,
 Went out for a walk on the public highway.
     Just here I will say,
     'Twas a bright sunny day,
 And the sky it was blue, and the grass it was green,
 The same sky and grass that you've all of you seen;
 And the birds in the trees sang their usual song,
 And Triangular Tommy went trudging along.

     But I can tell you
     He cared naught for the view.
 He did just what small boys of his age always do:
     He shouted out "Scat!"
     At a wandering cat,
 And he picked a big daisy to stick in his hat;
     The clovers he topped,
     And the toadstools he cropped,
 And sometimes he scuffled and sometimes he hopped.

 [Illustration]

 He took an old stick and poked at a worm,
 And merrily chuckled to see the thing squirm;
 When he chanced to look up, and in gorgeous array
 Triangular Tilly was coming his way.
 Triangular Tom straightened up in a jiff,
 And put on his best manner--exceedingly stiff;
 And as far as his angular shape would allow
 Triangular Tom made a beautiful bow.

 [Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 Triangular Tilly went smilingly by,
 With a glance that was friendly, but just a bit shy.
 And Tom so admired her that after she passed,
 A backward look over his shoulder he cast.
 And he said, "Though I think many girls are but silly,
 I really admire that Triangular Tilly."

 [Illustration]

 But soon all such thoughts were put out of his head,
 For who should come by but Triangular Ted,
 The very boy Tom had been wishing to see!
 "Hello!" said Triangular Tommy, said he.
 "Hello!" said Triangular Ted, and away
 Those two children scooted to frolic and play.
     And they had, on the green,
     Where 'twas all dry and clean,
 The best game of leap-frog that ever was seen.
 Triangular Tom beat down this way, you know,
 And Triangular Ted stood beside him, just so,
     When one, two, three--go!
     With  the  greatest gusto,
 Ted flew over Tom in a manner not slow.

 [Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 They played hide-and-seek, they played marbles and tag,
 They played they were soldiers, and each waved a flag;
     Till at last they confessed,
     They wanted to rest;
 So they sat down and chatted with laughter and jest;

 [Illustration]

 When Schoolmaster Jones they suddenly spied,
 Come clumping along with his pedagogue stride,
 As usual, with manner quite preoccupied;
     With his hat on one side,
     And his shoe-lace untied--
 A surly old fellow, it can't be denied;
     And each wicked boy
     Thought that he would enjoy
 An occasion the thoughtful old man to annoy,
 And all of his wise calculations destroy.
     So they thought they'd employ
     A means known to each boy.
 And across the wide pavement they fastened a twine
 Exceedingly strong but exceedingly fine;
 And Triangular Tommy laughed out in his glee,
 To think how upset the old master would be!

 [Illustration]

 Although very wicked, their mischievous scheme
 Was a perfect success; and with a loud scream,
     A horrible clash,
     A thump and a smash,
 Old Schoolmaster Jones came down with a crash.
 His hat rolled away, and his spectacles broke,
 And those dreadful boys thought it a howling good joke.
 And they just doubled up in immoderate glee,
 Saying, "Look at the Schoolmaster!
     Tee-hee! tee-hee!"

 [Illustration]

 [Illustration]

     Tom gave a guffaw,
     And Ted roared a "haw-haw";
 But soon their diversion was turned into awe,
 For old Schoolmaster Jones was angry, they saw.

 [Illustration]

 [Illustration]

     Triangular Ted
     Turned swiftly and fled,
 And far down the street like a reindeer he sped,
 Leaving Tommy to face the old gentleman's rage,
 Who quickly jumped up,--he was brisk for his age,--
 And with just indignation portrayed on his face,
 To Triangular Tommy he quickly gave chase.

 [Illustration]

     And hearing his squeals
     And his frantic appeals,
 Triangular Tommy fast took to his heels.
 Now Tommy was agile and Tommy was spry;
 He whizzed through the air--he just seemed to fly;
 He rushed madly on, until, dreadful to say!
 He came where the railroad was just in his way--
     And alas! and alack!
     He tripped on the track
 And then with a terrible, sudden ker-thwack!
 Triangular Tommy sprawled flat on his back--
 And the train came along with a crash, and a crack,
 A din, and a clatter, a clang, and a clack,
 A toot, and a boom, and a roar, and a hiss,
 And chopped him up all into pieces like this--
 If _you_ cut out papers just like them, why, then,
 If you try, you can put him together again.

 [Illustration]




 A Modern Invention


 Old Santa Claus is up-to-date,
   And hereafter, rumors say,
 He'll come with his pack of glittering toys,
 And visit the homes of girls and boys,
   In a new reindeerless sleigh.

 [Illustration]




 An April Joke


 [Illustration]

 Oh, it was a merry, gladsome day,
 When the April Fool met the Queen of May;
 She had roguish eyes and golden hair,
 And they were a mischief-making pair.
 They planned the funniest kind of a joke
 On the poor, long-suffering mortal folk;
 And a few mysterious words he said,
 His fool's cap close to her flower-crowned head.
 Then he laughed till he made his cap-bells ring,
 At the thought of the topsy-turvy Spring.
 "'Tis a fair exchange," he said, with a wink--
 "It is!" she said, and what do you think?
 The flowers that should bloom in the month of May
 Every one of them came on an April day!
 And they looked for April showers in vain,
 But all through May it did nothing but rain!




 An Alice Alphabet


 [Illustration]

 A is for Alice a-dressing the Queen.

 [Illustration]

 B is for Borogoves, mimsy and lean.

 [Illustration]

 C is the Cheshire Cat, wearing a grin.

 [Illustration]

 D is the Duchess who had a sharp chin.

 [Illustration]

 E is the Eaglet who barred out long words.

 [Illustration]

 F, the Flamingo, the queerest of birds.

 [Illustration]

 G is the Gryphon, loquacious and gay.

 [Illustration]

 H, Humpty Dumpty in gorgeous array.

 [Illustration]

 I is for Insects with curious names.

 [Illustration]

 J is the Jabberwock burbling with flames.

 [Illustration]

 K is the King who was whizzed through the air.

 [Illustration]

 L is the Lobster who sugared his hair.

 [Illustration]

 M, the Mock Turtle, whose tears freely flowed.

 [Illustration]

 N is for Nobody seen on the road.

 [Illustration]

 O is for Oysters who trotted so quick.

 [Illustration]

 P is the Puppy who played with a stick.

 [Illustration]

 Q is the Queen who ran very fast.

 [Illustration]

 R is the Rabbit who blew a great blast.

 [Illustration]

 S is the Sheep, on her knitting intent.

 [Illustration]

 T, Tweedledum, with his noisy lament.

 [Illustration]

 U is the Unicorn, valiant in feud.

 [Illustration]

 V is the Violet, saucy and rude.

 [Illustration]

 W, the Walrus, addicted to chat.

 [Illustration]

 X, Executioner, seeking the cat.

 [Illustration]

 Y is the Youth Father William surveyed.

 [Illustration]

 Z is the Zigzag the mouse's tail made.




 The Funny Kittens


 [Illustration]

 Once there were some silly kittens,
 And they knitted woolly mittens
   To bestow upon the freezing Hottentots.
 But the Hottentots refused them,
 Saying that they never used them
   Unless crocheted of red with yellow spots.

 [Illustration]

 So the silly little kittens
 Took their blue and white striped mittens
   To a Bear who lived within a hollow tree;
 The Bear responded sadly,
 "I would wear your mittens gladly,
   But I fear they are too gay for such as me."

 [Illustration]

 Then the kittens, almost weeping,
 Came to where a Cow lay sleeping,
   And they woke her with this piteous request,
 "Won't you wear our mittens furry?"
 Said the Cow, "My dears, don't worry;
   I will put them on as soon as I am dressed."

 [Illustration]

 Then the Cow put on her bonnet
 With a wreath of roses on it,
   And a beautiful mantilla fringed with white;
 And she donned the pretty mittens,
 While the silly little kittens
   Clapped their paws in admiration at the sight.




 The Strike of the Fireworks


 'Twas the night before the Fourth of July, the people slept serene;
 The fireworks were stored in the old town hall that stood
               on the village green.
 The steeple clock tolled the midnight hour, and at its final stroke,
 The fire in the queer old-fashioned stove lifted its voice and spoke;
 "The earth and air have naught to do, the water, too, may play,
 And only fire is made to work on Independence Day.

 "I won't stand such injustice! It's wrong, beyond a doubt,
 And I shall take my holiday. Good-by, I'm going out!"
 Up spoke a Roman candle then, "The principle is right!
 Suppose we strike, and all agree we will not work to-night!"
 "My stars!" said a small sky-rocket. "What an awful time there'll be,
 When the whole town comes together to-night, the great display to see!"
 "Let them come," said a saucy pinwheel, "yes, let them come if they like,
 As a delegate I'll announce to them that the fireworks
               are going to strike!"
 "My friends," said a small cap-pistol, "this movement is all wrong,--
 Gunpowder, noise, and fireworks to Fourth of July belong.
 My great ancestral musket made Independence Day,
 I frown on your whole conspiracy, and you are wrong, I say!"

 And so they talked and they argued, some for and some against,--
 And they progressed no further than they were when they commenced.
 Until in a burst of eloquence a queer little piece of punk
 Arose in his place and said, "I think we ought to show some spunk.
 And I for one have decided, although I am no shirk,
 That to-day is a legal holiday and not even fire should work.

 "And I am of some importance,"--here he gave a pretentious cough,
 "For without my assistance none of you could very well be put off."
 "You are right," said the Roman candle, "and I think we are all agreed
 To strike for our rights and our liberty. Hurrah! we shall succeed!"
 The dissenters cried with one accord, "Our objections we withdraw.
 Hurrah, hurrah for the fireworks' strike!" and they cried again, "Hurrah!"

 Then a match piped up with a tiny voice, "Your splendid scheme I like.
 I agree with all your principles and so I, too, will strike!"
 Suiting the action to the word, the silly little dunce
 Clambered down from his matchsafe and excitedly struck at once.
 He lost his head, and he ran around among the fireworks dry,
 And he cried, "Hurrah for the fireworks' strike! Hurrah for the
               Fourth of July!"

 With his waving flame he lit the punk--a firecracker caught a spark,--
 Then rockets and wheels and bombs went off--no longer the place was dark!
 The explosions made a fearful noise, the flames leaped high and higher,
 The village folk awoke and cried, "The town hall is on fire!"
 So the strike of the fireworks ended in a wonderful display
 Of pyrotechnic grandeur on Independence Day!




 The Arch Armadillo


 [Illustration]

 There once was an arch Armadillo
 Who built him a hut 'neath a willow;
       He hadn't a bed
       So he rested his head
 On a young Porcupine for a pillow.




 A Dream Lesson


 Once there was a little boy who wouldn't go to bed,
 When they hinted at the subject he would only shake his head,
 When they asked him his intentions, he informed them pretty straight
 That he wouldn't go to bed at all, and Nursey needn't wait.

 As their arguments grew stronger, and their attitude more strict,
 I grieve to say that naughty boy just yelled and screamed and kicked.
 And he made up awful faces, and he told them up and down
 That he wouldn't go to bed for all the nurses in the town.

 Then Nursey lost her patience, and although it wasn't right,
 Retorted that for all she cared he might sit up all night.
 He approved of this arrangement, and he danced a jig for joy,
 And turned a somersault with glee; he _was_ a naughty boy.

 And so they all went off to bed and left him sitting there,
 Right in the corner by the fire in Grandpa's big armchair.
 He read his books and played his games,--he even sang a song
 And thought how lovely it would be to sit up all night long.

 [Illustration]

 But soon his games grew stupid, and his puzzles wouldn't work;
 He drew himself up stiffly with a sudden little jerk,
 And he said, "I am not sleepy, and I love to play alone--
 And--I--think--" the rest was mumbled in a drowsy monotone.

 He leaned back on the cushions like that night he had the croup;
 His head began to wobble and his eyes began to droop;
 He closed them for a minute, just to see how it would seem,
 And straightway he was sound asleep, and dreamed this awful dream!

 He thought he saw a garden filled with flowers and roses gay,
 A great big gardener with a hoe came walking down his way;
 "Ah, ha!" exclaimed the gardener, as he clutched him by the head,
 "Here's a fine specimen I've found; I'll plant him in this bed!"

 [Illustration]

 He held the boy in one big hand, unheeding how he cried,
 And with the other dug a hole enormous, deep, and wide.
 He jammed the little fellow in, and said in gruffest tone,
 "This is the bed for naughty boys who won't go to their own."

 And then the dirt was shovelled in,--it covered up his toes,
 His ankles, knees, and waist and arms, and higher yet it rose.
 For still the gardener shovelled on, not noticing his cries;
 It came up to his chin and mouth--it almost reached his eyes;

 Just then he gathered all his strength and gave an awful scream,
 And woke himself, and put an end to that terrific dream.
 And he said, as Nursey tucked him up and bade him snugly rest,
 "When I am planted in a bed, I like my own the best."




 The Rivals


 [Illustration]

 Two well-built men, neither giant nor dwarf,
 Were Monsieur Elims and Mynheer Nworf.
 They lived in a town not far away,
 And spent their time in work and play.
 Now Monsieur Elims was loved by all--
 By rich and poor, by great and small.
 And Mynheer Nworf remarked one day,
 "Brother, explain to me, I pray,
 Why no one likes me as well as you,
 No matter what I may say or do.
 I have stores of knowledge packed in my head;
 I am learned and wise and very well read;
 I can dance, I can sing, I'm extremely polite;
 I am worth a large fortune all in my own right.
 But still,--and this question has caused me much thought,--
 While I am neglected, you're everywhere sought."
 Monsieur Elims replied: "My dear sir, that is true,
 But you see, I am I, and you see, you are you.
 If I receive praises and you receive blame,
 'Tis doubtless because each lives up to his name."

 You'll find his defence rather puzzling, I fear;
 But read their names backward--the meaning is clear.




 The New Cup


 "I've a lovely new cup from Uncle John,"
   Said Dorothy; "only see--
 It has beautiful golden letters on,
   And they spell '_Remember Me_.'"

 "Oho!" laughed Fred. "Why, Dorothy dear,
   They put that on mugs and plates:
 _I_'ve studied jography 'most a year,
   And I know the names of the States.

 And when you see that anywhere,--
   At least, since this fuss with Spain,--
 It's the President who puts it there,
   And it means 'Remember the Maine'!"




 A Photographic Failure


 [Illustration]

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Saw a patient Periwinkle
 With a kodak, sitting idly by a rill.
     Feeling a desire awaken
     For to have his picture taken,
 Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle stood stock-still.

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Felt his brow begin to wrinkle,
 And his pose assume a sad and solemn style;
     But the Periwinkle trusted,
     As the focus he adjusted,
 That his customer would kindly try to smile.

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Felt his eyes begin to twinkle,
 And his mouth took on a broad and open grin;
     Said the Periwinkle, sadly,
     "If you stretch your jaw so madly,
 I fear perhaps that I shall tumble in."

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Felt his hair begin to crinkle,
 As it rose up on his forehead in affright;
     Though his comrade spoke so mildly,
     Mr. Hinkle wondered wildly,
 How he could escape this dire and awful plight.

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Said, "I fear it's going to sprinkle,
 And really for a storm I'm not prepared."
     Then without a further warning
     He politely said, "Good morning,"
 And the patient Periwinkle stood and stared.

 [Illustration]




 Christmas Gifts


 Ten Christmas presents standing in a line;
 Robert took the bicycle, then there were nine.
 Nine Christmas presents ranged in order straight;
 Bob took the steam engine, then there were eight.
 Eight Christmas presents--and one came from Devon;
 Robbie took the jackknife, then there were seven.
 Seven Christmas presents direct from St. Nick's;
 Bobby took the candy box, then there were six.
 Six Christmas presents, one of them alive;
 Rob took the puppy dog, then there were five.
 Five Christmas presents yet on the floor;
 Bobbin took the soldier cap, then there were four.
 Four Christmas presents underneath the tree;
 Bobbet took the writing desk, then there were three.
 Three Christmas presents still in full view;
 Robin took the checker board, then there were two.
 Two Christmas presents, promising fun,
 Bobbles took the picture book, then there was one.
 One Christmas present--and now the list is done;
 Bobbinet took the sled, and then there were none.
 And the same happy child received every toy,
 So many nicknames had one little boy.




 Young America


 [Illustration]

 Wee Willie sat a-thinking,
   And he shook his curly head.
 Around him on the nursery floor
   His treasures lay outspread.

 Firecrackers and torpedoes,
   Trumpet and flag and drum,
 Rockets and pinwheels and paper caps,
   For Fourth of July had come.

 "But it makes me sort o' sorry,"
   Wee Willie said with a sigh,
 "To think of those poor little English boys
   Without any Fourth of July."




 A Bicycle built for Two


 There was an ambitious young eel
 Who determined to ride on a wheel;
       But try as he might,
       He couldn't ride right,
 In spite of his ardor and zeal.

 If he sat on the saddle to ride
 His tail only pedalled one side;
       And I'm sure you'll admit
       That an eel _couldn't_ sit
 On a bicycle saddle astride.

 Or if he hung over the top,
 He could go, but he never could stop;
       For of course it is clear
       He had no way to steer,
 And under the wheel he would flop.

 His neighbor, observing the fun,
 Said, "I think that the thing can be done,
       If you'll listen to me,
       You'll quickly agree
 That two heads are better than one.

 "And this is my project, old chap,
 Around our two waists I will wrap
       This beautiful belt
       Of bottle-green felt
 And fasten it firm with a strap."

 [Illustration]

 This done, with a dignified mien
 The two squirmed up on the machine,
       And rode gayly away,
       Or at least, so they say,
 Who witnessed the wonderful scene.




 [Illustration]

 Dorothy's Opinion


 Mamma has bought a calendar,
   And every single page
 Has pictures on of little girls
   'Most just about my age.

 And when she bought it yesterday,
   Down at the big bazaar,
 She said, "What lovely little girls,
   How true to life they are."

 But I don't think they're true to life,
   And I'll just tell you why;
 They never have a rumpled frock
   Or ribbon bow awry.

 And though they play with cats and dogs,
   And rabbits and white mice,
 And sail their boats and fly their kites,
   They always look so nice.

 And I am sure no little girl
   That ever _I_ have seen,
 Could play with dogs or sail a boat
   And keep her frock so clean.

 [Illustration]




 The Roll of Roly Poly Roy


 [Illustration]

 Once on a time a lad I knew--
   His sister called him Bubby;
 His cheeks were red, his eyes were blue,
   And he was plump and chubby.
 Indeed, he was so stout a boy,
 Some called him Roly Poly Roy;
     They called him that
     For he was fat
 And very plump and chubby.

 [Illustration]

 He caused his father grief profound,
   And made his mother worry,
 Because he'd roll along the ground
   When he was in a hurry.
 For as he couldn't see his toes,
 He often tumbled on his nose;
     So, on the whole,
     'Twas best to roll
 When he was in a hurry.

 "Get up!" the people urged, but he
   Replied, "There's no use talking;
 I roll around because, you see,
   It's easier than walking."
 And though it looked extremely droll
 To see the lad lie down and roll,
     It was, forsooth,
     For that fat youth
 Far easier than walking.

 [Illustration]

 One day he thought he'd try to ride;
   Alas, he was so bulky,
 He tumbled off the other side,
   Which made him rather sulky.
 He heard his comrades jeer and scoff,
 Again he tried and tumbled off,
     And when he fell
     They'd shout and yell--
   Of course it made him sulky.

 Just out of town there was a place
   With rolling ground and hilly,
 And here Roy started for a race
   With Dick and Tom and Willy.
 You'll know of course before you're told
 That Roy just laid him down and rolled;
     And so, you see,
     He easily
   Beat Dick and Tom and Willy.

 That day two giants came along
   From Huncamunca Valley,
 Seeking some tenpins good and strong
   For their new bowling alley.
 They reached the hilly sort of place
 Just as our hero won the race;
     "Look at him roll!"
     They said. "He'll bowl
   On our new bowling alley.

 "The other boys are squarely built;
   For tenpins they'll do finely!
 No matter if a few get kilt,"
   And then they smiled benignly.
 Quickly they kidnapped ten small boys,
 All howling with a fearful noise;
     They took them all,
     And Roy for ball,
   And then they smiled benignly.

 [Illustration]

 They hurried to their home and then
   Began their barbarous bowling.
 They set in rows the children ten
   And then set Roy a-rolling.
 But as the giants were strong and great,
 They shot poor Roy at such a rate,
     And with such might,
     That out of sight
   Poor Roy was set a-rolling.

 [Illustration]

 He rolled and rolled and rolled and rolled,
   But soon, his fears dispelling,
 With happiness he did behold
   He'd safely reached his dwelling.
 Secure and safe from further harms,
 His mother caught him in her arms,
     And said with joy,
     "My darling boy,
  You've safely reached your dwelling."

 Now rolling seems to him to be
   More dangerous than walking.
 And Roly Poly Roy you'll see
   Along the sidewalks stalking.
 He'll always have a certain fear
 That giants may be lurking near,
     And so he'll go
     With motion slow
   Along the sidewalk stalking.

 [Illustration]




 My Barometer


 [Illustration]

 My little maid with golden hair
   Comes each morning for a kiss;
 And I know the day will be fine and fair
   When Polly looks like this.

 [Illustration]

 Or I know the clouds will frown and lower,
   The skies will be dull and gray,
 And perhaps there'll be a passing shower,
   When Polly looks this way.

 [Illustration]

 But a violent storm of rain or snow
   I can prognosticate,
 For the sign will never fail, I know,
   When this is Polly's pate.




 The Butter Betty Bought


 Betty Botta bought some butter;
 "But," said she, "this butter's bitter!
 If I put it in my batter
 It will make my batter bitter.
 But a bit o' better butter
 Will but make my batter better."
 Then she bought a bit o' butter
 Better than the bitter butter,
 Made her bitter batter better.
 So 'twas better Betty Botta
 Bought a bit o' better butter.




 [Illustration]

 A Marvel


 An old astronomer there was
   Who lived up in a tower,
 Named Ptolemy Copernicus
   Flammarion McGower.
 He said: "I can prognosticate
   With estimates correct;
 And when the skies I contemplate,
   I know what to expect.
 When dark'ning clouds obscure my sight,
   I think perhaps 'twill rain;
 And when the stars are shining bright,
   I know 'tis clear again."
 And then abstractedly he scanned
   The heavens, hour by hour,
 Old Ptolemy Copernicus
   Flammarion McGower.




 An Alphabet Zoo


 A was an apt Alligator,
 Who wanted to be a head-waiter;
     He said, "I opine
     In that field I could shine,
 Because I am such a good skater."

 B was a beggarly Bear,
 Who carefully curled his front hair;
     He said, "I would buy
     A red-spotted tie,--
 But I haven't a penny to spare."

 C was a cool Chimpanzee,
 Who went to an afternoon tea.
     When they said, "Will you take
     A caraway cake?"
 He greedily took twenty-three!

 D was a diligent Doe,
 In summer she shovelled the snow;
     In the spring and the fall
     She did nothing at all,
 And in winter the grass she would mow.

 E was an erudite Ermine,
 Who tried very hard to determine
     If he _should_ earn a cent,
     How it ought to be spent,
 And decided to purchase a sermon.

 F was a fussy Flamingo,
 Who remarked to his family, "By jingo!
     I think I would go
     To that animal show,
 But they all talk such barbarous lingo."

 G was a giddy Gazelle,
 Who never could learn how to spell;
     But she managed to pass
     To the head of her class,
 Because she did fractions so well.

 H was a haughty young Hawk,
 Who affected society talk;
     But when introduced
     At a large chicken roost
 He excitedly screamed out, "Oh, Lawk!"

 I was an idle Iguana,
 Who lived upon curried banana;
     With tears he'd protest
     That he never could rest
 Till he learned to sing "Eileen Alanna."

 J was a jimp Jaguar,
 Who purchased a Spanish guitar;
     He played popular airs
     At _fêtes_ and at fairs,
 And down at the Fancy Bazaar.

 K was a kind Kangaroo,
 Whose bonnet was always askew;
     So they asked her to wait
     While they put it on straight
 And fastened it firmly with glue.

 L was a lachrymose Leopard,
 Who ate up twelve sheep and a shepherd,
     But the real reason why
     He continued to cry
 Was his food was so lavishly peppered.

 M was a mischievous Marten,
 Who went to the Free Kindergarten;
     When they asked him to plat
     A gay-colored mat,
 He tackled the job like a Spartan.

 N was a naughty Nylghau,
 Who wandered too near a buzz saw.
     It cut off his toes,
     And the shrieks that arose
 Filled all of the neighbors with awe.

 O was an ossified Oyster,
 Who decided to enter a cloister.
     He could not return,
     So continued to yearn
 For his home in the sea, which was moister.

 P was a poor old Poll Parrot,
 Who had nothing to eat but a carrot,
     And nothing to wear
     But a wig of red hair,
 And nowhere to live but a garret.

 Q was a querulous Quab
 Who at every trifle would sob;
     He said, "I detest
     To wear a plaid vest,
 And I hate to eat corn from the cob!"

 R was a rollicking Ram,
 Attired in an old pillow sham.
     When asked if he'd call
     At the masquerade ball,
 He said, "I'll go just as I am."

 S was a shy Salamander,
 Who slept on a sunny veranda.
     She calmly reposed,
     But, alas! while she dozed
 They caught her and killed her and canned her.

 T was a tidy young Tapir,
 Who went out to bring in the paper;
     And when he came back
     He made no muddy track,
 For he wiped his feet clean on the scraper.

 U was a young Unicorn,
 The bravest that ever was born.
     They bought him a boat
     And they set him afloat,
 And straightway he sailed for Cape Horn.

 V was a vigorous Vulture,
 Who taught animals physical culture;
     When a pupil dropped dead,
     The kind teacher said,
 "You needn't consider sepulture."

 W was a wild Worm,
 All day he did nothing but squirm.
     They sent him to school,
     But he broke every rule,
 And left at the end of the term.

 X was a Xiphias brave,
 Who lived on the crest of the wave.
     To each fish he would say,
     "Good day, sir, good day!"
 And then a polite bow he gave.

 Y was a young Yellowhammer,
 Who raised a ridiculous clamor;
     And he chattered until
     An owl said, "Keep still!
 I'm trying to study my grammar."

 Z was a zealous old Zibet,
 Toboggans he tried to prohibit.
     If any one tried
     To take a sly slide,
 He ordered him hanged on a gibbet.




 Found Wanting


 [Illustration]

 There lived a wondrous sculptor once, a genius in his way,
 Named Phidias Praxiteles Canova Merryday.
 He sat within his studio and said, "I really must
 Begin a Rhodian anaglyptic ceroplastic bust.

 "My customers demand them, their fame rings near and far,
 But then, alas, the trouble is, I don't know what they are.
 Though I could carve a Venus or a Belvedere with ease,
 My wondrous skill is lacking when it comes to carving these.

 "I cast and cut and chisel, I model and I mould,
 I copy poses picturesque from studies new and old;
 In marble, bronze, and potter's clay, in wax and wood and stone
 I carve the old-time statues with improvements of my own.

 [Illustration]

 "I have Apollo on a horse, Minerva on a wheel,
 Hercules going fishing with his basket and his creel.
 A Mercury on roller-skates, Diana with a hat,
 And Venus playing tennis with Achilles at the bat.

 "Yet these my customers pass by, and ask with interest keen,
 For things with long and tiresome names,--I don't know what they mean.
 And so I let my hammers hang, and let my chisels rust,
 For I cannot do an anaglyptic ceroplastic bust."




 A Tragic Tale of Tea


 [Illustration]

 The Beetle was blind, and the Bat was blinder,
 And they went to take tea with the Scissors-grinder.
 The Scissors-grinder had gone away
 Across the ocean to spend the day;
 But he'd tied his bell to the grapevine swing.
 The Bat and the Beetle heard it ring,
 And neither the Beetle nor Bat could see
 Why no one offered them any tea.
 So, polite and patient, they're waiting yet
 For the cup of tea they expect to get.

 [Illustration]




 The Erratic Rat


 [Illustration]

 There was a ridiculous Rat
 Who was awfully puffy and fat.
     "I'll carry," he said,
     "This plate on my head,
 'Twill answer in place of a hat."

 [Illustration]

 And then he remarked with a frown,
 "I suppose that I must have a gown;
     I'll make me a kilt
     Of this old crazy-quilt,
 To wear when I'm going to town.

 "And of course, though the weather is warm,
 It may be there'll come up a storm;
     An umbrella I'll make
     Of a caraway cake,
 It'll match with my whole uniform.

 And I'll carry a bottle of ink
 In case I should wish for a drink;
     And this flat-iron so sweet
     I'll take with me to eat,
 And now I am ready, I think."

 [Illustration]




 [Illustration]

 The Two Friends


 A Spider and a Centipede went out to take a walk;
 The Centipede said frankly, "I will listen while you talk,
 But I may appear distracted, or assume a vacant stare,
 Because to keep my feet in step requires my constant care."

     Said the Spider: "I appreciate your most peculiar case,
     And your feet must be quite handy when you want to run a race;
     But though you gain in some ways, in some other ways you lose;
     And, of course, my friend, you must be quite extravagant in shoes."

 "Ah! yes. Ah! yes," a heavy sigh escaped the Centipede;
 "And I have other trials, too;--my life is hard indeed!
 Why, sometimes when I'm very tired, a long, long time it takes
 To ascertain with certainty which foot it is that aches.

 "And when I go to dancing-class on Saturdays at three,
 I find the First Position very difficult for me.
 Though I put my best foot foremost, and good time I try to keep,
 To my chagrin, I often find a foot or two asleep.

     Athletics I attempted, but, alas! I must admit
     That every exercise I tried I put my foot in it.
     I think I'll join a foot-ball team,--as many friends suggest,--
     Before I've one foot in the grave and gout in all the rest.

 But now I'll say good-morning; for, my friend, I have to stop
 To get my boots blacked neatly at this little boot-black's shop;
 And, as you may imagine, it will keep me here some time,
 But, what is worse, I'll have to pay him many a hard-earned dime."

     The Spider said good-morning, and pursued his way alone,
     And as he went he murmured, in a thoughtful undertone:
     "I'm a happy little Spider, and I'm very glad indeed,
     That I was born an octoped and not a centipede!"

 [Illustration]




 The Smiling Shark


 There was an old Shark with a smile
 So broad you could see it a mile.
     He said to his friends,
     As he sewed up the ends,
 "It was really too wide for the style."

 [Illustration]




 The Mercury's Plaint


 [Illustration]

 I don't know why I'm slandered so,
 If I go high,--if I go low,--
 There's always some one who will say,
 "Just see that mercury to-day!"
 And whether toward the top I crawl
 Or down toward zero I may fall,
 They always fret, and say that I
 Am far too low or far too high.
 Although I try with all my might,
 I never seem to strike it right.
 Now I admit it seems to me
 They show great inconsistency.
 But _they_ imply _I_ am to blame;
 Of course that makes my anger flame,
 And in a fiery fit of pique
 I stay at ninety for a week.
 Or sometimes in a dull despair,
 I give them just a frigid stare;
 And as upon their taunts I think
 My spirits down to zero sink.
 Mine is indeed a hopeless case;
 To strive to please the human race!

 [Illustration]




 The Pirate Poodle


 Once there was a Pirate Poodle,
   And he sailed the briny seas
 From the land of Yankee Doodle
   Southward to the Caribbees.

 [Illustration]

 He would boast with tales outlandish,
   Of his valor and renown;
 And his cutlass he would brandish
   With a fearful pirate frown.

 So ferocious was his manner
   All his crew looked on, aghast;
 And his fearful pirate banner
   Floated from his pirate mast.

 He reiterated proudly
   Naught had power to make him quail;
 Yet when thunder roared _too_ loudly
   He would turn a trifle pale.

 And he turned a little paler
   When there came a sudden squall;
 For this funny little sailor
   Was ridiculously small.

 [Illustration]

 And whene'er a storm portended
   He'd betake himself below.
 So much fear and courage blended
   Did a pirate ever show?




 [Illustration]

 An Old Love


 Priscilla, Auntie's promised me
   A brand-new Paris doll;
 And though I love you, yet you see
   I cannot keep you all.

 Nursey declares I really must
   Throw one of you away;
 And you're the oldest, so I trust
   You will not care to stay.

 You've lost an arm, your dress is torn,
   Your wig is all awry;
 Priscilla, you are so forlorn,
   We'll have to say good-by.

 And yet--oh, don't! my dolly dear,
   _Don't_ look so sad, I pray!
 You precious dolly, come right here,
   You _shan't_ be thrown away!

 You're ragged, yes, and lame and blind,
   You're really but a wreck;
 But, dear Priscilla, never mind,
   _I_ do not care a speck.

 Your eyes do nicely when they're shut,
   And I can mend the rest;
 Well--p'raps I'll love the new one--but
   I'll always love _you_ best.




 Bobby's Pocket


 Our Bobby is a little boy, of six years old, or so;
 And every kind of rubbish in his pocket he will stow.

 One day he thought he'd empty it (so he again could stock it);
 And here's an alphabet of what was found in Bobby's pocket.

 A was a rosy Apple, with some bites out, here and there;
 B was a bouncing rubber Ball that bounded in the air.

 C was a crispy crusty Cake with citron on the top;
 D was a dancing Donkey that could jump around and hop.

 E was a little robin's Egg, all speckled blue and brown;
 F was a fluffy Feather that was white and soft as down.

 G was a lively Grasshopper, whose legs and wings were green;
 H was a grimy Handkerchief that once perhaps was clean.

 I was a plaster Image that had lost its plaster head;
 J was a jolly Jumping-Jack all painted blue and red.

 K was a keen and shining Knife, 'twould cut the toughest bark;
 L was a little wooden Lion, strayed out of Noah's Ark.

 M was a Marble, large and round, with colors bright and clear;
 N was a bent and rusty Nail, of little use, I fear.

 O was a tiny Oil-can, which was always upside down;
 P was a Penny Bob had saved to spend some day in town.

 Q was a Quilted ear-tab, which had lost its velvet mate;
 R was a Ring with a glassy gem of wondrous size and weight.

 S was a String, a piece of Soap, a Stone, a Sponge, a Stick;
 T was a lump of Taffy, exceeding soft and thick.

 U, an Umbrella-handle, of silver-mounted horn;
 V was a comic Valentine, a little creased and worn.

 W was some sticky Wax, lovely to pinch and mould;
 X was an old Xpress receipt, worn out in every fold.

 Y was a lot of Yellow Yarn, all bunched up like a mop;
 Z was a jagged piece of Zinc, found in a plumber's shop.

 All these are Bob's possessions; he loves every single thing;
 And owning all these treasures he's as happy as a King!




 The Instructiphone


 [Illustration]

 There was a youthful genius once, a boy of thirteen years,
 Named Cyrus Franklin Edison Lavoisier De Squeers.
 To study he was not inclined, for fun he had a bent;
 But there was just one article he wanted to invent.

 "It's a sort of a contraption which will work itself," he said,
 "And, without studying, will put my lessons in my head."
 He thought and puzzled o'er his plan, he worked with might and main
 To utilize the wondrous schemes within his fertile brain:

 Until at last the thing was done, and to his friends said he:
 "It is the wonder of the age! Success I can foresee!
 My great invention is complete, and--'tis no idle vaunt--
 I'm sure that my Instructiphone will fill a long-felt want.

 "The action is quite simple--I will try to make it clear:
 This funnel-shaped receiver I apply to my left ear;
 Then in this hopper I will put whate'er I wish to learn--
 A page of history or of Greek,--and then this crank I'll turn.

 "The topic goes into this tube, a sort of phonograph
 Which acts directly on my mind,--it _does_, you needn't laugh!
 I do not have to think at all, for, as I pull this chain,
 My wonderful machine transmits the knowledge to my brain."

 The plan was good, the works were fine, and yet there was a flaw;
 When Cyrus turned the crank around, the neighbors watched with awe.
 He confidently pulled the chain with motion quick and deft;
 The knowledge entered his right ear--and came out at his left.

 He tried again,--a page of Greek; he tried a theme occult,--
 A message and an errand,--every time the same result!
 Then Cyrus knew that somehow his machine had missed its aim;
 For though the works ran smoothly it was always just the same.

 No matter what the book might be, or what it was about,
 It would go in at one ear,--at the other 'twould come out!
 So in his laboratory, baffled Cyrus sitting lone,
 Strives to correct the sad defect in his Instructiphone.

 But it is my opinion, there's no fault in the machine:
 The trouble is that Cyrus is like other boys I've seen.




 The Lay of the Lady Lorraine


 The Lady Lorraine was sweet and fair;
   The Lady Lorraine was young;
 She had wonderful eyes and glorious hair,
 And a voice of a cadence rich and rare;
 Oh, she was a lady beyond compare--
   By all were her praises sung,
       Till valley and plain
       Took up the refrain,
 And rang with the praise of the Lady Lorraine.

 And besides all charms of form and face,
 There were other attractions about Her Grace;
 Besides her delicate, lily-white hands,
 She had rolling acres and broad, rich lands;
 Besides her patrician coat of arms,
 She had far-reaching forests and fertile farms;
 And of many an ancient and wide domain
 The beautiful lady was châtelaine.
       So of course at her door
       There were suitors galore;
 They came by the dozen, and came by the score.

 [Illustration]

 They came in droves, and they came in hordes,
 Titled nobility,--princes, lords,
 Dukes and marquises, viscounts and peers,
 Ambassadors, marshals, grandees, grenadiers,
 Barons and baronets, earls, and esquires,
 Illustrious sons of illustrious sires:
       But 'twas ever in vain
       They sought to attain
 The heart and the hand of the Lady Lorraine.
       And day after day
       They turned sadly away;
 For the Lady Lorraine continued to say,
 Decidedly, certainly, stubbornly, "Nay!"
 She cared not for wreaths of laurel or bay,
 Their titles or rent rolls or uniforms gay,
 Their medals or ribbons or gaudy display,
 Their splendid equipment, demeanor, or bearing;
 She observed not their manners, nor what they were wearing;
 Their marvellous exploits for her had no charms:
 Their prowess in tourney, their valor at arms;
 Their wondrous achievements of brawn or of brain,--
 All, all were as naught to the Lady Lorraine.
 To each suitor she'd say, with her hand on her heart,
 "Sir, I ask of you only that you will depart."

 In vain they entreated, they begged and they plead,
 They coaxed and besought, and they sullenly said
 That she was hard-hearted, unfeeling, and cruel.
 They challenged each other to many a duel;
 They scowled and they scolded, they sulked and they sighed,
 But they could not win Lady Lorraine for a bride.

 Now the reason for this, as you may have divined,
 Was because in her maidenly heart was enshrined
 The image of one who was just to her mind:
       Who was loving and kind,
       To whose faults she was blind,--
 The lord of her heart, and the love of her life,
 To whom she had promised to be a fond wife.
 Her Highness was happy, for even now he
 Was hastening to her across the blue sea.
 He had written to say he was then on the way,
 And would greet his fair lady on Christmas day.

       *       *       *

 'Twas Christmas eve. In the old oak hall
 Preparations were made for the Christmas ball.
 Gay garlands were hung from ceiling and wall;
 The Yule log was laid, the tables arrayed,
 And the Lady Lorraine and her whole cavalcade,
 From the pompous old steward to the scullery-maid,
       Were all in a fluster,
       Excitement and bluster,
 And everything shone with a marvellous lustre.

 [Illustration]

 Such savory viands the larders presented;
 Such wondrous confections the bakers invented:
 Such pasties and cates of eccentric design;
 Such sparkling decanters of rarest old wine;
 And ready at hand was the great wassail-bowl,
 And the jolly old boar's head, with lemon, so droll.
 The nook for musicians was carefully planned,
 And carols and glees would be played by the band.

 [Illustration]

 At last all was ready. The workmen were done;
 And awaiting the jollity, mirth, and frivolity,
 The games and the dancing, the feasting and fun,
 The old hall was empty,--save only for one,--
 The Lady Lorraine, who surveyed it with pride,
 And said, "It is worthy of Lord Cecil's bride!"
 Then a bright smile illumined her happy young face,
 Her roguish eyes twinkled, and gayly Her Grace
 Crossed the old polished floor with a step light and quick,
 And her high slipper heels went clickety-click.
 She looked cautiously round,--she was all by herself;
       Like a mischievous elf,
       She took from a shelf
 A mistletoe spray with its berries like pearls;
 Then tossing her head and shaking her curls,
 In a manner half daring and yet half afraid,
 The madcap maid, with a smile that betrayed
 Expectant thoughts of her lover dear,
 Fastened the spray to the chandelier.

 [Illustration]

 Then in a merry, fanciful mood,
 Inspired by the time and the solitude,
       The Lady Lorraine,
       In whimsical vein,
 Said, "On Christmas eve, 'neath this mistletoe bough,
 I'll solemnly make an immutable vow."
 With a glance at the portraits that hung on the wall,
 She said, "I adjure ye to witness, all:
 I vow by the names that I've long revered,--
 By my great-great-grandfather's great gray beard,
 By my father's sword, by my uncle's hat,
 By my spinster aunt's Angora cat,
 By my ancient grandame's buckled shoes,
 By my uncle Gregory's marvellous brews,
       By Sir Sydney's wig,
       And his ruff so big,--
 Indeed, by his whole preposterous rig,--
 By the scutcheon and crest, and all the rest
 Of the signs of my house, I vow this vow:
 That whoever beneath this mistletoe bough
 Shall first kiss me, he--none but he--
 My partner for life shall henceforth be."

 [Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 She had scarcely ceased when she heard a sound.
       She looked around,
       And, startled, found
 From the old oak chimney place it came.
 For there, as if in an old oak frame,
 A figure quaint, yet familiar too,
 Met her astonished, bewildered view.
 Of aspect merry, yet something weird,
 With kind blue eyes and a long white beard,
 Fur-trimmed cloak, and a peakèd cap,
 Rosy cheeks,--a jolly old chap;
 And, though surprised, she recognized
 St. Nicholas, dear to her childhood days,
 And she met his smile with a welcome gaze.

 The jolly old man beheld Her Grace,
 With her laughing eyes and her winsome face;
       He couldn't resist her,--
         Indeed, who could?--
       And he heartily kissed her
         Where she stood!
 And exultingly cried, "I heard your vow;
 And Lady Lorraine shall be _my_ bride now!"

 [Illustration]

 The lady trembled, as in a daze;
 With a startled gaze of blank amaze,
 She looked at the figure who stood by her side
 And audaciously claimed her for his bride.

       Then she bowed her head
       And the color fled
 From the cheeks that his kiss had flushed rosy red.
 Her heart was filled with a sad despair
 As she thought of her lover, Lord Cecil Clare,
       And his dire dismay
       When on Christmas day
 He should ride up gayly in brave array,
 And find his sweetheart stolen away.

 But the honor and pride of her race were at stake;
       And for conscience' sake
       She dared not break
 Her solemn vow, though her heart might ache.
 To be true to her word, her sire had taught her,
 And she was a loyal, obedient daughter.
 She appealed to the portraits of squires and dames,
 Who looked sternly down from their gilded frames;
 But they seemed to say, "There must ne'er be broken
 A promise or vow a Lorraine has spoken."

 With stifled sighs, and with tears in her eyes,
 Though she tried to assume a cheerful guise,
 She turned to the suitor who stood apart,
 Awaiting the gift of her hand and heart;
 And she said with a gentle, dignified air:
 "My heart belongs to Lord Cecil Clare;
       But my fatal vow,
       Though I rue it now,
 I dare not break. So, at your command,
 I fulfil it! On you I bestow my hand."

 "O noble lady!" her suitor cried,
 "'Twas only a merry test I tried.
       Full well I knew
       That your heart was true.
 Behold your lover, my bonny bride!
 I assumed this guise for a Christmas joke."
       And as he spoke,
       He threw off his cloak,
 He flung to the floor his peakèd hood,
 And a gallant knight before her stood!

 [Illustration]

 He doffed his wig and his long white beard;
 All signs of St. Nicholas disappeared;
 And smiling there, in the firelight's glare,
 Was the gay and noble Lord Cecil Clare!

 The lady marvelled--a glad surprise
 Betokened itself in her lovely eyes;
 And with her merriment quite restored,
 She said, "You are welcome home, my lord;
       And I'm thankful, now,
       That I kept my vow."

 Lord Cecil raised her hand to his lips,
 And gallantly kissed her finger tips;
       While the squires and dames
       Looked down from their frames,
 And "Bless you, my children!" they seemed to say.
 Then the band appeared, and began to play;
 The guests arrived, and without delay
 The fun commenced, and the old oak hall
 Never had known such a Christmas ball!
       The feast was spread,
       And the dance was led
 By the knight and the lady, and every one said,
 With a shout that rent the midnight air,
 "Long live Lord Cecil and Lady Clare!"

 [Illustration]

﻿
JABBERWOCKY

  'Twas brillig, and the slithy toves
      Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
  All mimsy were the borogoves,
      And the mome raths outgrabe.

  "Beware the Jabberwock, my son!
      The jaws that bite, the claws that catch!
  Beware the Jubjub bird, and shun
      The frumious Bandersnatch!"

  He took his vorpal sword in hand:
      Long time the manxome foe he sought.
  So rested he by the Tumtum tree,
      And stood awhile in thought.

  And as in uffish thought he stood,
      The Jabberwock with eyes of flame,
  Came whiffling through the tulgey wood,
      And burbled as it came!

  One, two! One, two! And through, and through
      The vorpal blade went snicker-snack!
  He left it dead, and with its head
      He went galumphing back.

  "And hast thou slain the Jabberwock?
      Come to my arms, my beamish boy!
  Oh, frabjous day! Callooh! Callay!"
      He chortled in his joy.

  'T was brillig, and the slithy toves
      Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
  All mimsy were the borogoves
      And the mome raths outgrabe.

                          _Lewis Carroll_.




MORS IABROCHII

  Coesper[1] erat: tunc lubriciles[2] ultravia circum
      Urgebant gyros gimbiculosque tophi;
  Moestenui visae borogovides ire meatu;
      Et profugi gemitus exgrabuêre rathae.

  O fuge Iabrochium, sanguis meus![3] Ille recurvis
      Unguibus, estque avidis dentibus ille minax.
  Ububae fuge cautus avis vim, gnate! Neque unquam
      Faederpax contra te frumiosus eat!

  Vorpali gladio juvenis succingitur: hostis
      Manxumus ad medium quaeritur usque diem:
  Jamque viâ fesso, sed plurima mente prementi,
      Tumtumiae frondis suaserat umbra moram.

  Consilia interdum stetit egnia[4] mene revolvens;
      At gravis in densa fronde susuffrus[5] erat,
  Spiculaque[6] ex oculis jacientis flammea, tulseam
      Per silvam venit burbur[7] labrochii!

  Vorpali, semel atque iterum collectus in ictum,
      Persnicuit gladis persnacuitque puer:
  Deinde galumphatus, spernens informe Cadaver,
      Horrendum monstri rettulit ipse caput.

  Victor Iabrochii, spoliis insignis opimis,
      Rursus in amplexus, o radiose, meos!
  O frabiose dies! CALLO clamateque CALLA!
      Vix potuit lastus chorticulare pater.

  Coesper erat: tune lubriciles ultravia circum
      Urgebant gyros gimbiculosque tophi;
  Moestenui visæ borogovides ire meatu;
      Et profugi gemitus exgrabuêre rathæ.

                          _Anonymous_.

[Footnote 1: _Coesper_ from _Coena_ and _vesper_.]

[Footnote 2: _lubriciles_ from _lubricus_ and _graciles_. See the
Commentary in Humpty Dumpty's square, which will also explain
_ultravia_, and--if it requires explanation--_moestenui_.]

[Footnote 3: _Sanguis meus_: cf. Verg. Aen. 6. 836, "Projice tela
manu, sanguis meus!"]

[Footnote 4: _egnia_: "muffish" = segnis; ... "uffish" = egnis.
This is a conjectural analogy, but I can suggest no better solution.]

[Footnote 5: _susuffrus_ : "whiffling" :: _susurrus_ : "whistling."]

[Footnote 6: _spicula_: see the picture.]

[Footnote 7: _burbur_: apparently a labial variation of _murmur_,
stronger but more dissonant.]




_THE NYUM-NYUM_

  The Nyum-Nyum chortled by the sea,
      And sipped the wavelets green:
  He wondered how the sky could be
      So very nice and clean;

  He wondered if the chambermaid
      Had swept the dust away,
  And if the scrumptious Jabberwock
      Had mopped it up that day.

  And then in sadness to his love
      The Nyum-Nyum weeping said,
  I know no reason why the sea
      Should not be white or red.

  I know no reason why the sea
      Should not be red, I say;
  And why the slithy Bandersnatch
      Has not been round to-day.

  He swore he'd call at two o'clock,
      And now it's half-past four.
  "Stay," said the Nyum-Nyum's love, "I think
      I hear him at the door."

  In twenty minutes in there came
      A creature black as ink,
  Which put its feet upon a chair
      And called for beer to drink.

  They gave him porter in a tub,
      But, "Give me more!" he cried;
  And then he drew a heavy sigh,
      And laid him down, and died.

  He died, and in the Nyum-Nyum's cave
      A cry of mourning rose;
  The Nyum-Nyum sobbed a gentle sob,
      And slily blew his nose.

  The Nyum-Nyum's love, we need not state,
      Was overwhelmed and sad;
  She said, "Oh, take the corpse away,
      Or you will drive me mad!"

  The Nyum-Nyum in his supple arms
      Took up the gruesome weight,
  And, with a cry of bitter fear,
      He threw it at his mate.

  And then he wept, and tore his hair,
      And threw it in the sea,
  And loudly sobbed with streaming eyes
      That such a thing could be.

  The ox, that mumbled in his stall,
      Perspired and gently sighed,
  And then, in sympathy, it fell
      Upon its back and died.

  The hen that sat upon her eggs,
      With high ambition fired,
  Arose in simple majesty,
      And, with a cluck, expired.

  The jubejube bird, that carolled there,
      Sat down upon a post,
  And with a reverential caw,
      Gave up its little ghost.

  And ere its kind and loving life
      Eternally had ceased,
  The donkey, in the ancient barn,
      In agony deceased.

  The raven, perched upon the elm,
      Gave forth a scraping note,
  And ere the sound had died away,
      Had cut its tuneful throat.

  The Nyum-Nyum's love was sorrowful;
      And, after she had cried,
  She, with a brand-new carving-knife,
      Committed suicide.

  "Alas!" the Nyum-Nyum said, "alas!
      With thee I will not part,"
  And straightway seized a rolling-pin
      And drove it through his heart.

  The mourners came and gathered up
      The bits that lay about;
  But why the massacre had been,
      They could not quite make out.

  One said there was a mystery
      Connected with the deaths;
  But others thought the silent ones
      Perhaps had lost their breaths.

  The doctor soon arrived, and viewed
      The corpses as they lay;
  He could not give them life again,
      So he was heard to say.

  But, oh! it was a horrid sight;
      It made the blood run cold,
  To see the bodies carried off
      And covered up with mould.

  The Toves across the briny sea
      Wept buckets-full of tears;
  They were relations of the dead,
      And had been friends for years.

  The Jabberwock upon the hill
      Gave forth a gloomy wail,
  When in his airy seat he sat,
      And told the awful tale.

  And who can wonder that it made
      That loving creature cry?
  For he had done the dreadful work
      And caused the things to die.

  That Jabberwock was passing bad--
      That Jabberwock was wrong,
  And with this verdict I conclude
      One portion of my song.

                          _Anonymous_.




UFFIA

  When sporgles spanned the floreate mead
      And cogwogs gleet upon the lea,
  Uffia gopped to meet her love
      Who smeeged upon the equat sea.

  Dately she walked aglost the sand;
      The boreal wind seet in her face;
  The moggling waves yalped at her feet;
      Pangwangling was her pace.

                          _Harriet R. White_.




SPIRK  TROLL-DERISIVE

  The Crankadox leaned o'er the edge of the moon,
      And wistfully gazed on the sea
  Where the Gryxabodill madly whistled a tune
      To the air of "Ti-fol-de-ding-dee."

  The quavering shriek of the Fliupthecreek
      Was fitfully wafted afar
  To the Queen of the Wunks as she powdered her cheek
      With the pulverized rays of a star.

  The Gool closed his ear on the voice of the Grig,
      And his heart it grew heavy as lead
  As he marked the Baldekin adjusting his wig
      On the opposite side of his head;

  And the air it grew chill as the Gryxabodill
      Raised his dank, dripping fins to the skies
  To plead with the Plunk for the use of her bill
      To pick the tears out of his eyes.

  The ghost of the Zhack flitted by in a trance;
      And the Squidjum hid under a tub
  As he heard the loud hooves of the Hooken advance
      With a rub-a-dub-dub-a-dub dub!

  And the Crankadox cried as he laid down and died,
      "My fate there is none to bewail!"
  While the Queen of the Wunks drifted over the tide
      With a long piece of crape to her tail.

                          _James Whitcomb Riley_.




THE WHANGO TREE

  The woggly bird sat on the whango tree,
      Nooping the rinkum corn,
  And graper and graper, alas! grew he,
      And cursed the day he was born.
  His crute was clum and his voice was rum,
      As curiously thus sang he,
  "Oh, would I'd been rammed and eternally clammed
      Ere I perched on this whango tree."

  Now the whango tree had a bubbly thorn,
      As sharp as a nootie's bill,
  And it stuck in the woggly bird's umptum lorn
      And weepadge, the smart did thrill.
  He fumbled and cursed, but that wasn't the worst,
      For he couldn't at all get free,
  And he cried, "I am gammed, and injustibly nammed
      On the luggardly whango tree."

  And there he sits still, with no worm in his bill,
      Nor no guggledom in his nest;
  He is hungry and bare, and gobliddered with care,
      And his grabbles give him no rest;
  He is weary and sore and his tugmut is soar,
      And nothing to nob has he,
  As he chirps,  "I am blammed and corruptibly jammed,
      In this cuggerdom whango tree."

                          _1840_.




SING FOR THE GARISH EYE

  Sing for the garish eye,
      When moonless brandlings cling!
  Let the froddering crooner cry,
      And the braddled sapster sing,
  For never and never again,
      Will the tottering beechlings play,
  For bratticed wrackers are singing aloud,
      And the throngers croon in May!

                          _W.S. Gilbert_.




THE CRUISE OF THE "P.C."

  Across the swiffling waves they went,
      The gumly bark yoked to and fro:
  The jupple crew on pleasure bent,
      Galored, "This is a go!"

  Beside the poo's'l stood the Gom,
      He chirked and murgled in his glee;
  While near him, in a grue jipon,
      The Bard was quite at sea.

  "Gollop! Golloy! Thou scrumjous Bard!
      Take pen (thy stylo) and endite
  A pome, my brain needs kurgling hard,
      And I will feast tonight."

  That wansome Bard he took his pen,
      A flirgly look around he guv;
  He squoffled once, he squirled, and then
      He wrote what's writ above.

                          _Anonymous_.




TO MARIE

  When the breeze from the bluebottle's blustering blim
      Twirls the toads in a tooroomaloo,
  And the whiskery whine of the wheedlesome whim
      Drowns the roll of the rattatattoo,
  Then I dream in the shade of the shally-go-shee,
      And the voice of the bally-molay
  Brings the smell of stale poppy-cods blummered in blee
      From the willy-wad over the way.

  Ah, the shuddering shoo and the blinketty-blanks
      When the yungalung falls from the bough
  In the blast of a hurricane's hicketty-hanks
      On the hills of the hocketty-how!
  Give the rigamarole to the clangery-whang,
      If they care for such fiddlededee;
  But the thingumbob kiss of the whangery-bang
      Keeps the higgledy-piggle for me.

  _L'ENVOI_

  It is pilly-po-doddle and aligobung
      When the lollypop covers the ground,
  Yet the poldiddle perishes punketty-pung
      When the heart jimmy-coggles around.
  If the soul cannot snoop at the giggle-some cart,
      Seeking surcease in gluggety-glug,
  It is useless to say to the pulsating heart,
      "Panky-doodle ker-chuggetty-chug!"

                          _John Bennett_.




_LUNAR STANZAS_

  Night saw the crew like pedlers with their packs
      Altho' it were too dear to pay for eggs;
  Walk crank along with coffin on their backs
      While in their arms they bow their weary legs.

  And yet 't was strange, and scarce can one suppose
      That a brown buzzard-fly should steal and wear
  His white jean breeches and black woollen hose,
      But thence that flies have souls is very clear.

  But, Holy Father! what shall save the soul,
      When cobblers ask three dollars for their shoes?
  When cooks their biscuits with a shot-tower roll,
      And farmers rake their hay-cocks with their hoes.

  Yet, 'twere profuse to see for pendant light,
      A tea-pot dangle in a lady's ear;
  And 'twere indelicate, although she might
      Swallow two whales and yet the moon shine clear.

  But what to me are woven clouds, or what,
      If dames from spiders learn to warp their looms?
  If coal-black ghosts turn soldiers for the State,
      With wooden eyes, and lightning-rods for plumes?

  Oh! too, too shocking! barbarous, savage taste!
      To eat one's mother ere itself was born!
  To gripe the tall town-steeple by the waste,
      And scoop it out to be his drinking-horn.

  No more: no more! I'm sick and dead and gone;
      Boxed in a coffin, stifled six feet deep;
  Thorns, fat and fearless, prick my skin and bone,
      And revel o'er me, like a soulless sheep.

                          _Henry Coggswell Knight, 1815_.




NONSENSE

  Oh that my Lungs could bleat like butter'd Pease;
      But bleating of my lungs hath Caught the itch,
  And are as mangy as the Irish Seas
      That offer wary windmills to the Rich.

  I grant that Rainbowes being lull'd asleep,
      Snort like a woodknife in a Lady's eyes;
  Which makes her grieve to see a pudding creep,
      For Creeping puddings only please the wise.

  Not that a hard-row'd herring should presume
      To swing a tyth pig in a Cateskin purse;
  For fear the hailstons which did fall at Rome,
      By lesning of the fault should make it worse.

  For 'tis most certain Winter woolsacks grow
      From geese to swans if men could keep them so,
  Till that the sheep shorn Planets gave the hint
      To pickle pancakes in Geneva print.

  Some men there were that did suppose the skie
      Was made of Carbonado'd Antidotes;
  But my opinion is, a Whale's left eye,
      Need not be coyned all King Harry groates.

  The reason's plain, for Charon's Westerne barge
      Running a tilt at the Subjunctive mood,
  Beckoned to Bednal Green, and gave him charge
      To fasten padlockes with Antartic food.

  The End will be the Mill ponds must be laded,
      To fish for white pots in a Country dance;
  So they that suffered wrong and were upbraded
      Shall be made friends in a left-handed trance.

                          _Anonymous, 1617_.




SONNET FOUND IN A DESERTED MAD HOUSE

  Oh that my soul a marrow-bone might seize!
  For the old egg of my desire is broken,
  Spilled is the pearly white and spilled the yolk, and
  As the mild melancholy contents grease
  My path the shorn lamb baas like bumblebees.
  Time's trashy purse is as a taken token
  Or like a thrilling recitation, spoken
  By mournful mouths filled full of mirth and cheese.

  And yet, why should I clasp the earthful urn?
  Or find the frittered fig that felt the fast?
  Or choose to chase the cheese around the churn?
  Or swallow any pill from out the past?
  Ah, no Love, not while your hot kisses burn
  Like a potato riding on the blast.

                          _Anonymous_.




THE OCEAN WANDERER

  Bright breaks the warrior o'er the ocean wave
  Through realms that rove not, clouds that cannot save,
  Sinks in the sunshine; dazzles o'er the tomb
  And mocks the mutiny of Memory's gloom.
  Oh! who can feel the crimson ecstasy
  That soothes with bickering jar the Glorious Tree?
  O'er the high rock the foam of gladness throws,
  While star-beams lull Vesuvius to repose:
  Girds the white spray, and in the blue lagoon,
  Weeps like a walrus o'er the waning moon?
  Who can declare?--not thou, pervading boy
  Whom pibrochs pierce not, crystals cannot cloy;--
  Not thou soft Architect of silvery gleams,
  Whose soul would simmer in Hesperian streams,
  Th' exhaustless fire--the bosom's azure bliss,
  That hurtles, life-like, o'er a scene like this;--
  Defies the distant agony of Day--
  And sweeps o'er hetacombs--away! away!
  Say shall Destruction's lava load the gale,
  The furnace quiver and the mountain quail?
  Say shall the son of Sympathy pretend
  His cedar fragrance with our Chiefs to blend?
  There, where the gnarled monuments of sand
  Howl their dark whirlwinds to the levin brand;
  Conclusive tenderness; fraternal grog,
  Tidy conjunction; adamantine bog,
  Impetuous arrant toadstool; Thundering quince,
  Repentant dog-star, inessential Prince,
  Expound. Pre-Adamite eventful gun,
  Crush retribution, currant-jelly, pun,
  Oh! eligible Darkness, fender, sting,
  Heav'n-born Insanity, courageous thing.
  Intending, bending, scouring, piercing all,
  Death like pomatum, tea, and crabs must fall.

                          _Anonymous_.




SHE'S ALL MY FANCY PAINTED HIM

  She's all my fancy painted him,
      (I make no idle boast);
  If he or you had lost a limb,
      Which would have suffered most?

  He said that you had been to her,
      And seen me here before:
  But, in another character
      She was the same of yore.

  There was not one that spoke to us,
      Of all that thronged the street;
  So he sadly got into a 'bus,
      And pattered with his feet.

  They told me you had been to her,
      And mentioned me to him;
  She gave me a good character,
      But said I could not swim.

  He sent them word I had not gone
      (We know it to be true);
  If she should push the matter on,
      What would become of you?

  I gave her one, they gave him two,
      You gave us three or more;
  They all returned from him to you,
      Though they were mine before.

  If I or she should chance to be
      Involved in this affair,
  He trusts to you to set them free,
      Exactly as we were.

  My notion was that you had been
      (Before she had this fit)
  An obstacle that came between
      Him, and ourselves, and it.

  Don't let him know she liked them best,
      For this must ever be
  A secret, kept from all the rest,
      Between yourself and me.

                          _Lewis Carroll_.




MY RECOLLECTEST THOUGHTS

  My recollectest thoughts are those
      Which I remember yet;
  And bearing on, as you'd suppose,
      The things I don't forget.

  But my resemblest thoughts are less
      Alike than they should be;
  A state of things, as you'll confess,
      You very seldom see.

  And yet the mostest thought I love
      Is what no one believes--
  That I'm the sole survivor of
      The famous Forty Thieves!

                          _Charles E. Carry_.




FATHER WILLIAM

  "You are old, Father William," the young man said,
      "And your nose has a look of surprise;
  Your eyes have turned round to the back of your head,
      And you live upon cucumber pies."

  "I know it, I know it," the old man replied,
      "And it comes from employing a quack,
  Who said if I laughed when the crocodile died
      I should never have pains in my back."

  "You are old, Father William," the young man said,
      "And your legs always get in your way;
  You use too much mortar in mixing your bread,
      And you try to drink timothy hay."

  "Very true, very true," said the wretched old man,
      "Every word that you tell me is true;
  And it's caused by my having my kerosene can
      Painted red where it ought to be blue."

  "You are old, Father William," the young man said,
      "And your teeth are beginning to freeze,
  Your favorite daughter has wheels in her head,
      And the chickens are eating your knees."

  "You are right," said the old man, "I cannot deny,
      That my troubles are many and great,
  But I'll butter my ears on the Fourth of July,
      And then I'll be able to skate."

                          _Anonymous_.




IN THE GLOAMING

  The twilight twiles in the vernal vale,
      In adumbration of azure awe,
  And I listlessly list in my swallow-tail
      To the limpet licking his limber jaw.
  And it's O for the sound of the daffodil,
      For the dry distillings of prawn and prout,
  When hope hops high and a heather hill
      Is a dear delight and a darksome doubt.
  The snagwap sits in the bosky brae
      And sings to the gumplet in accents sweet;
  The gibwink hasn't a word to say,
      But pensively smiles at the fair keeweet.

  And it's O for the jungles of Boorabul.
      For the jingling jungles to jangle in,
  With a moony maze of mellado mull,
      And a protoplasm for next of kin.
  O, sweet is the note of the shagreen shard
      And mellow the mew of the mastodon,
  When the soboliferous Somminard
      Is scenting the shadows at set of sun.
  And it's O for the timorous tamarind
      In the murky meadows of Mariboo,
  For the suave sirocco of Sazerkind,
      And the pimpernell pellets of Pangipoo.

                          _James C. Bayles_.




BALLAD OF BEDLAM

  Oh, lady, wake! the azure moon
      Is rippling in the verdant skies,
  The owl is warbling his soft tune,
      Awaiting but thy snowy eyes.

  The joys of future years are past,
      To-morrow's hopes have fled away;
  Still let us love, and e'en at last
      We shall be happy yesterday.

  The early beam of rosy night
      Drives off the ebon morn afar,
  While through the murmur of the light
      The huntsman winds his mad guitar.

  Then, lady, wake! my brigantine
      Pants, neighs, and prances to be free;
  Till the creation I am thine,
      To some rich desert fly with me.

                          _Punch_.




'TIS SWEET TO ROAM

  'Tis sweet to roam when morning's light
      Resounds across the deep;
  And the crystal song of the woodbine bright
      Hushes the rocks to sleep,
  And the blood-red moon in the blaze of noon
      Is bathed in a crumbling dew,
  And the wolf rings out with a glittering shout,
      To-whit, to-whit, to-whoo!

                          _Anonymous_.




HYMN TO THE SUNRISE

  The dreamy crags with raucous voices croon
      Across the zephyr's heliotrope career;
  I sit contentedly upon the moon
      And watch the sunlight trickle round the sphere.

  The shiny trill of jagged, feathered rocks
      I hear with glee as swift I fly away;
  And over waves of subtle, woolly flocks
      Crashes the breaking day!

                          _Anonymous_.





THE MOON IS UP

  The moon is up, the moon is up!
      The larks begin to fly,
  And, like a drowsy buttercup,
      Dark Phoebus skims the sky,
  The elephant, with cheerful voice,
      Sings blithely on the spray;
  The bats and beetles all rejoice,
      Then let me, too, be gay.

  I would I were a porcupine,
      And wore a peacock's tail;
  To-morrow, if the moon but shine,
      Perchance I'll be a whale.
  Then let me, like the cauliflower,
      Be merry while I may,
  And, ere there comes a sunny hour
      To cloud my heart, be gay!

                          _Anonymous_.




'TIS  MIDNIGHT

  'Tis midnight, and the setting sun
      Is slowly rising in the west;
  The rapid rivers slowly run,
      The frog is on his downy nest.
  The pensive goat and sportive cow,
      Hilarious, leap from bough to bough.

                          _Anonymous_.




UPRISING SEE THE FITFUL LARK

  Uprising see the fitful lark
      Unfold his pinion to the stream;
  The pensive watch-dog's mellow bark
      O'ershades yon cottage like a dream:
  The playful duck and warbling bee
  Hop gayly on, from tree to tree!

  How calmly could my spirit rest
      Beneath yon primrose bell so blue,
  And watch those airy oxen drest
      In every tint of pearling hue!
  As on they hurl the gladsome plough,
  While fairy zephyrs deck each brow!

                          _Anonymous_.




LIKE TO THE THUNDERING TONE

  Like to the thundering tone of unspoke speeches,
  Or like a lobster clad in logic breeches,
  Or like the gray fur of a crimson cat,
  Or like the mooncalf in a slipshod hat;
  E'en such is he who never was begotten
  Until his children were both dead and rotten.

  Like to the fiery tombstone of a cabbage,
  Or like a crab-louse with its bag and baggage,
  Or like the four square circle of a ring,
  Or like to hey ding, ding-a, ding-a, ding;
  E'en such is he who spake, and yet, no doubt,
  Spake to small purpose, when his tongue was out.

  Like to a fair, fresh, fading, wither'd rose,
  Or like to rhyming verse that runs in prose,
  Or like the stumbles of a tinder-box,
  Or like a man that's sound yet sickness mocks;
  E'en such is he who died and yet did laugh
  To see these lines writ for his epitaph.

                          _Bishop Corbet
                             in 17th century_.




MY  DREAM

  I dreamed a dream next Tuesday week,
      Beneath the apple-trees;
  I thought my eyes were big pork-pies,
      And my nose was Stilton cheese.
  The clock struck twenty minutes to six,
      When a frog sat on my knee;
  I asked him to lend me eighteenpence,
      But he borrowed a shilling of me.

                          _Anonymous_.




MY HOME

  My home is on the rolling deep,
  I spend my time a-feeding sheep;
  And when the waves on high are running,
  I take my gun and go a-gunning.
  I shoot wild ducks down deep snake-holes,
  And drink gin-sling from two-quart bowls.

                          _Anonymous_.




IN IMMEMORIAM

  We seek to know, and knowing seek;
      We seek, we know, and every sense
      Is trembling with the great intense,
  And vibrating to what we speak.

  We ask too much, we seek too oft;
      We know enough and should no more;
      And yet we skim through Fancy's lore,
  And look to earth and not aloft.

       *       *       *       *       *

  O Sea! whose ancient ripples lie
      On red-ribbed sands where seaweeds shone;
      O moon! whose golden sickle's gone,
  O voices all! like you I die!

                          _Cuthbert Bede_.




THE HIGHER PANTHEISM IN A NUTSHELL

  One, who is not, we see; but one, whom we see not, is;
    Surely, this is not that; but that is assuredly this.

  What, and wherefore, and whence: for under is over and under;
  If thunder could be without lightning, lightning could be without
       thunder.

  Doubt is faith in the main; but faith, on the whole, is doubt;
  We cannot believe by proof; but could we believe without?

  Why, and whither, and how? for barley and rye are not clover;
  Neither are straight lines curves; yet over is under and over.

  One and two are not one; but one and nothing is two;
  Truth can hardly be false, if falsehood cannot be true.

  Parallels  all  things are; yet many of these are askew;
  You are certainly I; but certainly I am not you.

  One, whom we see not, is; and one, who is not, we see;
  Fiddle, we know, is diddle; and diddle, we take it, is dee.

                          _A.C. Swinburne_.




DARWINITY

  Power to thine elbow, thou newest of sciences,
      All the old landmarks are ripe for decay;
  Wars are but shadows, and so are alliances,
      Darwin the great is the man of the day.

  All other 'ologies want an apology;
      Bread's a mistake--Science offers a stone;
  Nothing is true but Anthropobiology--
      Darwin the great understands it alone.

  Mighty the great evolutionist teacher is,
      Licking Morphology clean into shape;
  Lord! what an ape the Professor or Preacher is,
      Ever to doubt his descent from an ape.

  Man's an Anthropoid--he cannot help that, you know--
      First evoluted from Pongos of old;
  He's but a branch of the _catarrhine_ cat, you know--
      Monkey I mean--that's an ape with a cold.

  Fast dying out are man's later Appearances,
      Cataclysmitic Geologies gone;
  Now of Creation completed the clearance is,
      Darwin alone you must anchor upon.

  Primitive Life--Organisms were chemical,
      Busting spontaneous under the sea;
  Purely subaqueous, panaquademical,
      Was the original Crystal of Me.

  I'm the Apostle of mighty Darwinity,
      Stands for Divinity--sounds much the same--
  Apo-theistico-Pan-Asininity
      Only can doubt whence the lot of us came.

  Down on your knees, Superstition and Flunkeydom!
      Won't you accept such plain doctrines instead?
  What is so simple as primitive Monkeydom
      Born in the sea with a cold in its head?

                          _Herman Merivale_.




SONG OF THE SCREW

  A moving form or rigid mass,
        Under whate'er conditions
  Along successive screws must pass
        Between each two positions.
  It turns around and slides along--
  This is the burden of my song.

  The pitch of screw, if multiplied
        By angle of rotation,
  Will give the distance it must glide
        In motion of translation.
  Infinite pitch means pure translation,
  And zero pitch means pure rotation.

  Two motions on two given screws,
        With amplitudes at pleasure,
  Into a third screw-motion fuse;
        Whose amplitude we measure
  By parallelogram construction
  (A very obvious deduction.)

  Its axis cuts the nodal line
        Which to both screws is normal,
  And generates a form divine,
        Whose name, in language formal,
  Is "surface-ruled of third degree."
  Cylindroid is the name for me.

  Rotation round a given line
        Is like a force along.
  If to say couple you incline,
        You're clearly in the wrong;--
  'Tis obvious, upon reflection,
  A line is not a mere direction.

  So couples with translations too
        In all respects agree;
  And thus there centres in the screw
        A wondrous harmony
  Of Kinematics and of Statics,--
  The sweetest thing in mathematics.

  The forces on one given screw,
        With motion on a second,
  In general some work will do,
        Whose magnitude is reckoned
  By angle, force, and what we call
  The coefficient virtual.

  Rotation now to force convert,
        And force into rotation;
  Unchanged the work, we can assert,
        In spite of transformation.
  And if two screws no work can claim,
  Reciprocal will be their name.

  Five numbers will a screw define,
        A screwing motion, six;
  For four will give the axial line,
        One more the pitch will fix;
  And hence we always can contrive
  One screw reciprocal to five.

  Screws--two, three, four or five, combined
        (No question here of six),
  Yield other screws which are confined
        Within one screw complex.
  Thus we obtain the clearest notion
  Of freedom and constraint of motion.

  In complex III., three several screws
        At every point you find,
  Or if you one direction choose,
        One screw is to your mind;
  And complexes of order III.
  Their own reciprocals may be.

  In IV., wherever you arrive,
        You find of screws a cone,
  On every line in complex V.
        There is precisely one;
  At each point of this complex rich,
  A plane of screws have given pitch.

  But time would fail me to discourse
        Of Order and Degree;
  Of Impulse, Energy and Force,
        And Reciprocity.
  All these and more, for motions small,
  Have been discussed by Dr. Ball.

                          _Anonymous_.




MOORLANDS OF THE NOT

  Across the moorlands of the Not
      We chase the gruesome When;
  And hunt the Itness of the What
      Through forests of the Then.
  Into the Inner Consciousness
      We track the crafty Where;
  We spear the Ego tough, and beard
      The Selfhood in his lair.

  With lassos of the brain we catch
     The Isness of the Was;
  And in the copses of the Whence
      We hear the think bees buzz.
  We climb the slippery Whichbark tree
      To watch the Thusness roll
  And pause betimes in gnostic rimes
      To woo the Over Soul.

                          _Anonymous_.




METAPHYSICS

  Why and Wherefore set out one day
        To hunt for a wild Negation.
  They agreed to meet at a cool retreat
        On the Point of Interrogation.

  But the night was dark and they missed their mark,
        And, driven well-nigh to distraction,
  They lost their ways in a murky maze
        Of utter abstruse abstraction.

  Then they took a boat and were soon afloat
        On a sea of Speculation,
  But the sea grew rough, and their boat, though tough,
        Was split into an Equation.

  As they floundered about in the waves of doubt
        Rose a fearful Hypothesis,
  Who gibbered with glee as they sank in the sea,
        And the last they saw was this:

  On a rock-bound reef of Unbelief
        There sat the wild Negation;
  Then they sank once more and were washed ashore
        At the Point of Interrogation.

                          _Oliver Herford_.




ABSTROSOPHY

  If echoes from the fitful past
      Could rise to mental view,
  Would all their fancied radiance last
  Or would some odors from the blast,
      Untouched by Time, accrue?

  Is present pain a future bliss,
      Or is it something worse?
  For instance, take a case like this:
  Is fancied kick a real kiss,
      Or rather the reverse?

  Is plenitude of passion palled
      By poverty of scorn?
  Does Fiction mend where Fact has mauled?
  Has Death its wisest victims called
      When idiots are born?

                          _Gelett Burgess_.




ABSTEMIA

    _In Mystic_ Argot _often Confounded with Farrago_

  If aught that stumbles in my speech
      Or stutters in my pen,
  Or, claiming tribute, each to each,
      Rise, not to fall again,
  Let something lowlier far, for me,
      Through evanescent shades--
  Than which my spirit might not be
      Nourished in fitful ecstasy
  Not less to know but more to see
      Where that great Bliss pervades.

                          _Gelett Burgess_.




PSYCHOLOPHON

    _Supposed to be Translated from the Old Parsee_

  Twine then the rays
      Round her soft Theban tissues!
  All will be as She says,
      When that dead past reissues.
  Matters not what nor where,
      Hark, to the moon's dim cluster!
  How was her heavy hair
      Lithe as a feather duster!
  Matters not when nor whence;
      Flittertigibbet!
  Sounds make the song, not sense,
      Thus I inhibit!

                          _Gelett Burgess_.




TIMON OF ARCHIMEDES

  As one who cleaves the circumambient air
      Seeking in azure what it lacks in space,
      And sees a young and finely chiselled face
  Filled with foretastes of wisdom yet more rare;
  Touching and yet untouched--unmeasured grace!
      A breathing credo and a living prayer--
      Yet of the earth, still earthy; debonair
  The while in heaven it seeketh for a place.



  So thy dear eyes and thy kind lips but say--
      Ere from his cerements Timon seems to flit:
        "What of the reaper grim with sickle keen?"
  And then the sunlight ushers in new day
      And for our tasks our bodies seem more fit--
        "Might of the night, unfleeing, sight unseen."

                          _Charles Battell Loomis_.




ALONE

  Alone! Alone!
  I sit in the solitudes of the moonshades,
  Soul-hungering in the moonshade solitudes sit I--
  My heart-lifts beaten down in the wild wind-path.
  Oppressed, and scourged and beaten down are my heart-lifts.
  I fix my gaze on the eye-star, and the eye-star flings its dart
       upon me.
  I wonder why my soul is lost in wonder why I am,
  And why the eye-star mocks me,
  Why the wild wind beats down my heart-lifts;
  Why I am stricken here in the moonshade solitudes.
  Oh! why am I what I am,
  And why am I anything?
  Am I not as wild as the wind and more crazy?
  Why do I sit in the moonshade, while the eye-star mocks me while I
       ask what I am?

  Why? Why?

                          _Anonymous_.




LINES BY A MEDIUM

  I might not, if I could;
      I should not, if I might;
  Yet if I should I would,
      And, shoulding, I should quite!

  I must not, yet I may;
      I can, and still I must;
  But ah! I cannot--nay,
      To must I may not, just!

  I shall, although I will,
      But be it understood,
  If I may, can, shall--still
      I might, could, would, or should!

                          _Anonymous_.




TRANSCENDENTALISM

  It is told, in Buddhi-theosophic schools,
            There are rules,
  By observing which, when mundane labor irks
        One can simulate quiescence
        By a timely evanescence
        From his Active Mortal Essence,
            (Or his Works.)

  The particular procedure leaves research
            In the lurch,
  But, apparently, this matter-moulded form
        Is a kind of outer plaster,
        Which a well-instructed Master
        Can remove without disaster
            When he's warm.

  And to such as mourn an Indian Solar Clime
            At its prime
  'Twere a thesis most immeasurably fit,
        So expansively elastic,
        And so plausibly fantastic,
        That one gets enthusiastic
            For a bit.

                          _From the Times of India_.




INDIFFERENCE

  In loopy links the canker crawls,
      Tads twiddle in their 'polian glee,
  Yet sinks my heart as water falls.
  The loon that laughs, the babe that bawls,
  The wedding wear, the funeral palls,
      Are neither here nor there to me.
        Of life the mingled wine and brine
      I sit and sip pipslipsily.

                          _Anonymous_.




HEART-FOAM

  Oh! to be wafted away
  From this black Aceldama of sorrow,
  Where the dust of an earthy to-day
  Makes the earth of a dusty to-morrow.

                          _W.S. Gilbert_.




COSSIMBAZAR

  Come fleetly, come fleetly, my hookabadar,
  For the sound of the tam-tam is heard from afar.
  "Banoolah! Banoolah!"   The Brahmins are nigh,
  And the depths of the jungle re-echo their cry.
      _Pestonjee Bomanjee_!
      Smite the guitar;
  Join in the chorus, my hookabadar.

  Heed not the blast of the deadly monsoon,
  Nor the blue Brahmaputra that gleams in the moon.
  Stick to thy music, and oh, let the sound
  Be heard with distinctness a mile or two round.
      _Famsetjee, Feejeebhoy_!
      Sweep the guitar.
  Join in the chorus, my hookabadar.

  Art thou a Buddhist, or dost thou indeed
  Put faith in the monstrous Mohammedan creed?
  Art thou a Ghebir--a blinded Parsee?
  Not that it matters an atom to me.
      _Cursetjee Bomanjee_!
      Twang the guitar
  Join in the chorus, my hookabadar.

                          _Henry S. Leigh_.




_THE PERSONIFIED SENTIMENTAL_

  Affection's charm no longer gilds
      The idol of the shrine;
  But cold Oblivion seeks to fill
      Regret's ambrosial wine.
  Though Friendship's offering buried lies
      'Neath cold Aversion's snow,
  Regard and Faith will ever bloom
      Perpetually below.

  I see thee whirl in marble halls,
      In Pleasure's giddy train,
  Remorse is never on that brow,
      Nor Sorrow's mark of pain.
  Deceit has marked thee for her own;
      Inconstancy the same;
  And Ruin wildly sheds its gleam
      Athwart thy path of shame.

                          _Bret Harte_.




A CLASSIC ODE

  Oh, limpid stream of Tyrus, now I hear
      The pulsing wings of Armageddon's host,
  Clear as a colcothar and yet more clear--
      (Twin orbs, like those of  which  the Parsees boast;)

  Down in thy pebbled deeps in early spring
      The dimpled naiads sport, as in the time
  When Ocidelus with untiring wing
      Drave teams of prancing tigers, 'mid the chime

  Of all the bells of Phicol. Scarcely one
      Peristome veils its beauties now, but then--
  Like nascent diamonds, sparkling in the sun,
      Or sainfoin, circinate, or moss in marshy fen.

  Loud as the blasts of Tubal, loud and strong,
      Sweet as the songs of Sappho, aye more sweet;
  Long as the spear of Arnon, twice as long,
      What time he hurled it at King Pharaoh's feet.

                          _Charles Battell Loomis_.




WHERE AVALANCHES WAIL

  Where avalanches wail, and green Distress
  Sweeps o'er the pallid beak of loveliness:
  Where melancholy Sulphur holds her sway:
  And cliffs of conscience tremble and obey;

  And where Tartarean rattle snakes expire;
  Twisting like tendrils of a hero's pyre?
  No! dancing in the meteor's hall of power,
  See, Genius ponders o'er Affection's tower!
  A form of thund'ring import soars on high,
  Hark! 'tis the gore of infant melody:
  No more shall verdant Innocence amuse
  The lips that death-fraught Indignation glues;--
  Tempests shall teach the trackless tide of thought.
  That undiminish'd senselessness is naught;
  Freedom shall glare; and oh! ye links divine,
  The Poet's heart shall quiver in the brine.

                          _Anonymous_




BLUE MOONSHINE

  Mingled aye with fragrant yearnings,
      Throbbing in the mellow glow,
  Glint the silvery spirit-burnings,
      Pearly blandishments of woe.

  Aye! forever and forever,
      Whilst the love-lorn censers sweep,
  Whilst the jasper winds dissever
      Amber-like the crystal deep,

  Shall the soul's delirious slumber,
      Sea-green vengeance of a kiss,
  Teach despairing crags to number
      Blue infinities of bliss.

                          _Francis G. Stokes_.




NONSENSE

  Good reader, if you e'er have seen,
        When Phoebus hastens to his pillow,
        The mermaids with their tresses green
      Dancing upon the western billow;
        If you have seen at twilight dim,
        When the lone spirit's vesper hymn
      Floats wild along the winding shore,
  The fairy train their ringlets weave
      Glancing along the spangled green;--
        If you have seen all this, and more,
      God bless me! what a deal you've seen!

                          _Thomas Moore_.




SUPERIOR NONSENSE VERSES

  He comes with herald clouds of dust;
      Ecstatic frenzies rend his breast;
  A moment, and he graced the earth--
      Now, seek him at the eagle's nest.

  Hark! see'st thou not the torrent's flash
      Far shooting o'er the mountain height?
  Hear'st not the billow's solemn roar,
      That echoes through the vaults of night?

  Anon the murky cloud is riven,
      The lightnings leap in sportive play,
  And through the clanging doors of heaven,
      In calm effulgence bursts the day.

  Hope, peering from her fleecy car,
      Smiles welcome to the coming spring,
  And birds with blithesome songs of praise
      Make every grove and valley ring.

  What though on pinions of the blast
      The sea-gulls sweep with leaden flight?
  What though the watery caverns deep
      Gleam ghostly on the wandering sight?

  Is there no music in the trees
      To charm thee with its frolic mirth?
  Must Care's wan phantom still beguile
      And chain thee to the stubborn earth?

  Lo! Fancy from her magic realm
      Pours Boreal gleams adown the pole.
  The tidal currents lift and swell--
      Dead currents of the ocean's soul.

  Yet never may their mystic streams
      Breathe whispers of the mournful past,
  Or Pallas wake her sounding lyre
      Mid Ether's columned temples vast.

  Grave History walks again the earth
      As erst it did in days of eld,
  When seated on the golden throne
      Her hand a jewelled sceptre held.

  The Delphian oracle is dumb,
      Dread Cumae wafts no words of fate,
  To fright the eager souls that press
      Through sullen Lethe's iron gate.

  But deeper shadows gather o'er
      The vales that sever night and morn;
  And darkness folds with brooding wing
      The rustling fields of waving corn.

  Then issuing from his bosky lair
      The crafty tiger crouches low,
  Or thunders from the frozen north
      The white bear lapped in Arctic snow.

  Thus shift the scenes till high aloft
      The young moon sets her crescent horn,
  And in gray evening's emerald sea
      The beauteous Star of Love is born.

                          _Anonymous_.




WHEN MOONLIKE ORE THE HAZURE SEAS

  When moonlike ore the hazure seas
      In soft effulgence swells,
  When silver jews and balmy breaze
      Bend down the Lily's bells;

  When calm and deap, the rosy sleap
      Has lapt your soal in dreems,
  R Hangeline!  R lady mine!
      Dost thou remember Jeames?

  I mark thee in the Marble all,
      Where England's loveliest shine--
  I say the fairest of them hall
      Is Lady Hangeline.

  My soul, in desolate eclipse,
      With recollection teems--
  And then I hask, with weeping lips,
      Dost thou remember Jeames?

  Away! I may not tell thee hall
      This soughring heart endures--
  There is a lonely sperrit-call
      That Sorrow never cures;

  There is a little, little Star,
      That still above me beams;
  It is the Star of Hope--but ar!
      Dost thou remember Jeames?

                          _W.M. Thackeray_.




LINES BY A PERSON OF QUALITY

  Fluttering spread thy purple pinions,
      Gentle Cupid, o'er my heart,
  I a slave in thy dominions,
      Nature must give way to art.

  Mild Arcadians, ever blooming,
      Nightly nodding o'er your flocks,
  See my weary days consuming,
      All beneath yon flowery rocks.

  Thus the Cyprian goddess weeping,
      Mourned Adonis, darling youth:
  Him the boar, in silence creeping,
      Gored with unrelenting tooth.

  Cynthia, tune harmonious numbers;
      Fair Discretion, tune the lyre;
  Soothe my ever-waking slumbers;
      Bright Apollo, lend thy choir.

  Gloomy Pluto, king of terrors,
      Armed in adamantine chains,
  Lead me to the crystal mirrors,
      Watering soft Elysian plains.

  Mournful Cypress, verdant willow,
      Gilding my Aurelia's brows,
  Morpheus, hovering o'er my pillow,
      Hear me pay my dying vows.

  Melancholy, smooth Maeander,
      Swiftly purling in a round,
  On thy margin lovers wander
      With thy flowery chaplets crowned.

  Thus when Philomela, drooping,
      Softly seeks her silent mate,
  So the bird of Juno stooping;
      Melody resigns to fate.

                          _Alexander Pope_.




FRANGIPANNI

  Untwine those ringlets! Ev'ry dainty clasp
      That shines like twisted sunlight in my eye
  Is but the coiling of the jewelled asp
      That smiles to see men die.

  Oh, cobra-curlèd! Fierce-fanged fair one! Draw
      Night's curtain o'er the landscape of thy hair!
  I yield! I kneel! I own, I bless thy law
      That dooms me to despair.

  I mark the crimson ruby of thy lips,
      I feel the witching weirdness of thy breath!
  I droop! I sink into my soul's eclipse,--
      I fall in love with death!

  And yet, vouchsafe a moment! I would gaze
      Once more into those sweetly-murderous eyes,
  Soft glimmering athwart the pearly haze
      That smites to dusk the skies.

  Hast thou no pity? Must I darkly tread
      The unknown paths that lead me wide from thee?
  Hast thou no garland for this aching head
      That soon so low must be?

  No sound? No sigh? No smile? Is _all_ forgot?
      Then spin my shroud out of that golden skein
  Thou callst thy tresses! _I_ shall stay thee not--
      My struggles were but vain!

  But shall I see thee far beyond the sun,
      When the new dawn lights Empyrean scenes?
  What matters now? I know the poem's done,
      And wonder what the dickens it all means!

                          _Anonymous_.




LINES BY A FOND LOVER

  Lovely maid, with rapture swelling,
      Should these pages meet thine eye,
  Clouds of absence soft dispelling;--
      Vacant memory heaves a sigh.

  As the rose, with fragrance weeping,
      Trembles to the tuneful wave,
  So my heart shall twine unsleeping,
      Till it canopies the grave.

  Though another's smile's requited,
      Envious fate my doom should be;
  Joy forever disunited,
      Think, ah! think, at times on me!

  Oft, amid the spicy gloaming,
      Where the brakes their songs instil,
  Fond affection silent roaming,
      Loves to linger by the rill--

  There, when echo's voice consoling,
      Hears the nightingale complain,
  Gentle sighs my lips controlling,
      Bind my soul in beauty's chain.

  Oft in slumber's deep recesses,
      I thy mirror'd image see;
  Fancy mocks the vain caresses
      I would lavish like a bee!

  But how vain is glittering sadness!
      Hark, I hear distraction's knell!
  Torture gilds my heart with madness!
      Now forever fare thee well!

                          _Anonymous_.




FORCING A WAY

  How many strive to force a way
  Where none can go save those who pay,
  To verdant plains of soft delight
  The homage of the silent night,
  When countless stars from pole to pole
  Around the earth unceasing roll
  In roseate shadow's silvery hue,
  Shine forth and gild the morning dew.

  And must we really part for good,
  But meet again here where we've stood?
  No more delightful trysting-place,
  We've watched sweet Nature's smiling face.
  No more the landscape's lovely brow,
  Exchange our mutual breathing vow.
  Then should the twilight draw around
  No loving interchange of sound.

  Less for renown than innate love,
  These to my wish must recreant prove;
  Nor whilst an impulse here remain,
  Can ever hope the soul to gain;
  For memory scanning all the past,
  Relaxes her firm bonds at last,
  And gives to candor all the grace
  The heart can in its temple trace.

                          _Anonymous_.




THY HEART

  Thy heart is like some icy lake,
      On whose cold brink I stand;
  Oh, buckle on my spirit's skate,
  And lead, thou living saint, the way
      To where the ice is thin--
  That it may break beneath my feet
      And let a lover in!

                          _Anonymous_.




A LOVE-SONG BY A LUNATIC

  There's not a spider in the sky,
      There's not a glowworm in the sea,
  There's not a crab that soars on high,
      But bids me dream, dear maid, of thee!

  When watery Phoebus ploughs the main,
      When fiery Luna gilds the lea,
  As flies run up the window-pane,
      So fly my thoughts, dear love, to thee!

                          _Anonymous_.




THE PARTERRE

  I don't know any greatest treat
      As sit him in a gay parterre,
  And sniff one up the perfume sweet
      Of every roses buttoning there.

  It only want my charming miss
      Who make to blush the self red rose;
  Oh! I have envy of to kiss
      The end's tip of her splendid nose.

  Oh! I have envy of to be
      What grass 'neath her pantoffle push,
  And too much happy seemeth me
      The margaret which her vestige crush.

  But I will meet her nose at nose,
      And take occasion for her hairs,
  And indicate her all my woes,
      That she in fine agree my prayers.

  THE ENVOY
  I don't know any greatest treat
      As sit him in a gay parterre,
  With Madame who is too more sweet
      Than every roses buttoning there.

                          _E.H. Palmer_




TO MOLLIDUSTA

  When gooseberries grow on the stem of a daisy,
      And plum-puddings roll on the tide to the shore,
  And julep is made from the curls of a jazey,
      Oh, then, Mollidusta, I'll love thee no more.

  When steamboats no more on the Thames shall be going,
      And a cast-iron bridge reach Vauxhall from the Nore,
  And the Grand Junction waterworks cease to be flowing,
      Oh, then, Mollidusta, I'll love thee no more.

                          _Planché_.




JOHN JONES

  _At the Piano_

  I

  Love me and leave me; what love bids retrieve me? can June's fist
       grasp May?
  Leave me and love me; hopes eyed once above me like spring's
       sprouts, decay;
  Fall as the snow falls, when summer leaves grow false--cards
       packed for storm's play!

  II

  Nay, say Decay's self be but last May's elf, wing shifted, eye
       sheathed--
  Changeling in April's crib rocked, who lets 'scape rills locked
       fast since frost breathed--
  Skin cast (think!) adder-like, now bloom bursts bladder-like,--
       bloom frost bequeathed?

  III

  Ah, how can fear sit and hear as love hears it grief's heart's
       cracked grate's screech?
  Chance lets the gate sway that opens on hate's way and shews on
       shame's beach
  Crouched like an imp sly change watch sweet love's shrimps lie, a
       toothful in each.

  IV

  Time feels his tooth slip on husks wet from Truth's lip, which
       drops them and grins--
  Shells where no throb stirs of life left in lobsters since joy
       thrilled their fins--
  Hues of the pawn's tail or comb that makes dawn stale, so red for
       our sins!

  V

  Leaves love last year smelt now feel dead love's tears melt--flies
       caught in time's mesh!
  Salt are the dews in which new time breeds new sin, brews blood
       and stews flesh;
  Next year may see dead more germs than this weeded and reared them
       afresh.

  Old times left perish, new time to cherish; life just shifts its
       tune;
  As, when the day dies, half afraid, eyes the growth of the moon;
  Love me and save me, take me or waive me; death takes one so soon!

                          _A.C. Swinburne_.




_THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT_

  The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to sea
      In a beautiful pea-green boat:
  They took some honey, and plenty of money
      Wrapped up in a five-pound note.
  The Owl looked up to the stars above,
      And sang to a small guitar,
  "Oh, lovely Pussy, oh, Pussy, my love,
      What a beautiful Pussy you are,
              You are,
              You are!
      What a beautiful Pussy you are!"

  Pussy said to the Owl, "You elegant fowl,
      How charmingly sweet you sing!
  Oh, let us be married; too long we have tarried:
      But what shall we do for a ring?"
  They sailed away for a year and a day,
      To the land where the bong-tree grows;
  And there in the wood a Piggy-wig stood,
      With a ring at the end of his nose,
              His nose,
              His nose,
      With a ring at the end of his nose.

  "Dear Pig, are you willing to sell for one shilling
      Your ring?" Said the Piggy, "I will."
  So they took it away and were married next day
      By the Turkey who lives on the hill.
  They dined on mince and slices of quince,
      Which they ate with a runcible spoon;
  And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,
      They danced by the light of the moon,
              The moon,
              The moon,
      They danced by the light of the moon.

                          _Edward Lear_.




A BALLADE OF THE NURSERIE

  She hid herself in the _soirée_ kettle
      Out of her Ma's way, wise, wee maid!
  Wan was her lip as the lily's petal,
      Sad was the smile that over it played.
      Why doth she warble not? Is she afraid
  Of the hound that howls, or the moaning mole?
      Can it be on an errand she hath delayed?
  Hush thee, hush thee, dear little soul!

  The nightingale sings to the nodding nettle
      In the gloom o' the gloaming athwart the glade:
  The zephyr sighs soft on Popòcatapètl,
      And Auster is taking it cool in the shade:
      Sing, hey, for a _gutta serenade_!
  Not mine to stir up a storied pole,
      No noses snip with a bluggy blade--
  Hush thee, hush thee, dear little soul!

  Shall I bribe with a store of minted metal?
      With Everton toffee thee persuade?
  That thou in a kettle thyself shouldst settle,
      When grandly and gaudily all arrayed!
      Thy flounces 'ill foul and fangles fade.
  Come out, and Algernon Charles 'ill roll
      Thee safe and snug in Plutonian plaid--
  Hush thee, hush thee, dear little soul!


  ENVOI

      When nap is none and raiment frayed,
  And winter crowns the puddered poll,
      A kettle sings ane soote ballade--
  Hush thee, hush thee, dear little soul.

                          _John Twig_.




_A BALLAD OF HIGH ENDEAVOR_

  Ah Night! blind germ of days to be,
      Ah me! ah me!
      (Sweet Venus, mother!)
  What wail of smitten strings hear we?
      (Ah me! ah me!
                _Hey diddle dee_!)

  Ravished by clouds our Lady Moon,
      Ah me! ah me!
      (Sweet Venus, mother!)
  Sinks swooning in a lady-swoon
      (Ah me! ah me!
                _Dum diddle dee_!)

  What profits it to rise i' the dark?
      Ah me! ah me!
      (Sweet Venus, mother!)
  If love but over-soar its mark
      (Ah me! ah me!
                _Hey diddle dee_!)

  What boots to fall again forlorn?
      Ah me! ah me!
      (Sweet Venus, mother!)
  Scorned by the grinning hound of scorn,
      (Ah me! ah me!
                _Dum diddle dee_!)

  Art thou not greater who art less?
       Ah me! ah me!
      (Sweet Venus, mother!)
  Low love fulfilled of low success?
      (Ah me! ah me!
                _Hey diddle dee_!)

                          _Anonymous_.




THE LUGUBRIOUS WHING-WHANG

  Out on the margin of moonshine land,
        Tickle me, love, in these lonesome ribs,
  Out where the whing-whang loves to stand,
  Writing his name with his tail on the sand,
  And wiping it out with his oogerish hand;
        Tickle me, love, in these lonesome ribs.

  Is it the gibber of gungs and keeks?
        Tickle me, love, in these lonesome ribs,
  Or what _is_ the sound the whing-whang seeks,
  Crouching low by the winding creeks,
  And holding his breath for weeks and weeks?
        Tickle me, love, in these lonesome ribs.

  Aroint him the wraithest of wraithly things!
        Tickle me, love, in these lonesome ribs,
  'Tis a fair whing-whangess with phosphor rings,
  And bridal jewels of fangs and stings,

                          _James W. Riley_




OH! WEARY MOTHER

  The lilies lie in my lady's bower,
      (Oh! weary mother, drive the cows to roost;)
  They faintly droop for a little hour;
  My lady's head droops like a flower.

  She took the porcelain in her hand,
      (Oh! weary mother, drive the cows to roost;)
  She poured; I drank at her command;
  Drank deep, and now--you understand!
      (Oh! weary mother, drive the cows to roost.)

                          _Barry Pain_.




SWISS AIR

  I'm a gay tra, la, la,
  With my fal, lal, la, la,
  And my bright--
  And my light--
      Tra, la, le.            [_Repeat_.]

  Then laugh, ha, ha, ha,
  And ring, ting, ling, ling,
  And sing, fal, la, la,
    La, la, le.               [_Repeat_.]

                          _Bret Harte_.




_THE BULBUL_

  The bulbul hummeth like a book
      Upon the pooh-pooh tree,
  And now and then he takes a look
      At you and me,
      At me and you.
        Kuchi!
        Kuchoo!

                          _Owen Seaman_.




_BALLAD_

  _With an Ancient Refrain_

  O stoodent A has gone and spent,
  With a hey-lililu and a how-low-lan
  All his money to a Cent,
  And the birk and the broom blooms bonny.

  His Creditors he could not pay,
  With a hey-lililu and a how-low-lan,
  And Prison proved a shock to A,
  And the birk and the broom blooms bonny.

                          _Anonymous_.




OH, MY GERALDINE

  Oh, my Geraldine,
        No flow'r was ever seen so toodle um.
        You are my lum ti toodle lay,
            Pretty, pretty queen,
  Is rum ti Geraldine and something teen,
  More sweet than tiddle lum in May.
        Like the star so bright
        That somethings all the night,
            My Geraldine!
  You're fair as the rum ti lum ti sheen,
        Hark! there is what--ho!
        From something--um, you know,
            Dear, what I mean.
  Oh! rum! tum!! tum!!! my Geraldine.

                          _F.C. Burnand_.




BUZ, QUOTH THE BLUE FLY

  Buz, quoth the blue fly,
      Hum, quoth the bee,
  Buz and hum they cry,
      And so do we:
  In his ear, in his nose, thus, do you see?
  He ate the dormouse, else it was he.

                          _Ben Jonson
                             in "The Masque of Oberon_."




A SONG  ON  KING  WILLIAM  III

  As I walked by myself,
  And talked to myself,
      Myself said unto me,
  Look to thyself,
  Take care of thyself,
      For nobody cares for thee.

  I answered myself,
  And said to myself,
      In the self-same repartee,
  Look to thyself,
  Or not look to thyself,
      The selfsame thing will be.

                          _Anonymous_.




THERE WAS A MONKEY

  There was a monkey climbed up a tree,
  When he fell down, then down fell he.

  There was a crow sat on a stone,
  When he was gone, then there was none.

  There was an old wife did eat an apple,
  When she had eat two, she had eat a couple.

  There was a horse going to the mill,
  When he went on, he stood not still.

  There was a butcher cut his thumb,
  When it did bleed, then blood did come.

  There was a lackey ran a race,
  When he ran fast, he ran apace.

  There was a cobbler clouting shoon,
  When they were mended, they were done.

  There was a chandler making candle,
  When he them strip, he did them handle.

  There was a navy went into Spain,
  When it returned, it came again.

                          _Anonymous, 1626_.




THE GUINEA  PIG

  There was a little Guinea-pig,
  Who, being little, was not big;
  He always walked upon his feet,
  And never fasted when he eat.

  When from a place he ran away,
  He never at that place did stay;
  And while he ran, as I am told,
  He ne'er stood still for young or old.

  He often squeaked, and sometimes vi'lent,
  And when he squeaked he ne'er was silent:
  Though ne'er instructed by a cat,
  He knew a mouse was not a rat.

  One day, as I am certified,
  He took a whim, and fairly died;
  And as I'm told by men of sense,
  He never has been living since!

                          _Anonymous_.




THREE CHILDREN

  Three children sliding on the ice
      Upon a summer's day,
  As it fell out they all fell in,
      The rest they ran away.

  Now, had these children been at home,
      Or sliding on dry ground,
  Ten thousand pounds to one penny
      They had not all been drowned.

  You parents all that children have,
      And you too that have none,
  If you would have them safe abroad
      Pray keep them safe at home.

                          _London, 1662_




_IF_

  If all the land were apple-pie,
      And all the sea were ink;
  And all the trees were bread and cheese,
      What should we do for drink?

                          _Anonymous_.




_A RIDDLE_

  The man in the wilderness asked of me
  How many strawberries grew in the sea.
  I answered him as I thought good,
  As many as red herrings grow in the wood.

                          _Anonymous_.




_THREE JOVIAL HUNTSMEN_

  There were three jovial huntsmen,
      As I have heard them say,
  And they would go a-hunting
      All on a summer's day.

  All the day they hunted,
      And nothing could they find
  But a ship a-sailing,
      A-sailing with the wind.

  One said it was a ship,
      The other said Nay;
  The third said it was a house
      With the chimney blown away.

  And all the night they hunted,
      And nothing could they find;
  But the moon a-gliding,
      A-gliding with the wind.

  One said it was the moon,
      The other said Nay;
  The third said it was a cheese,
      And half o't cut away.

                          _Anonymous_.




THREE ACRES OF LAND

  My father left me three acres of land,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
  My father left me three acres of land,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

  I ploughed it with a ram's horn,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
  And sowed it all over with one peppercorn.
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

  I harrowed it with a bramble bush,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
  And reaped it with my little penknife,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

  I got the mice to carry it to the barn,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
  And thrashed it with a goose's quill,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

  I got the cat to carry it to the mill,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
  The miller he swore he would have her paw,
  And the cat she swore she would scratch his face,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

                          _Anonymous_.




MASTER AND MAN

  Master I have, and I am his man,
      Gallop a dreary dun;
  Master I have, and I am his man,
  And I'll get a wife as fast as I can;
  With a heighly gaily gamberally,
      Higgledy piggledy, niggledy, niggledy,
      Gallop a dreary dun.

                          _Anonymous_.




HYDER IDDLE

  Hyder iddle diddle dell,
  A yard of pudding is not an ell;
  Not forgetting tweedle-dye,
  A tailor's goose will never fly.

                          _Anonymous_.




KING ARTHUR

  When good King Arthur ruled the land,
      He was a goodly king:
  He stole three pecks of barley meal,
      To make a bag-pudding.

  A bag-pudding the king did make,
      And stuffed it well with plums;
  And in it put great lumps of fat,
      As big as my two thumbs.

  The king and queen did eat thereof,
      And noblemen beside;
  And what they could not eat that night,
      The queen next morning fried.

                          _Anonymous_.




IN THE DUMPS

  We're all in the dumps,
  For diamonds are trumps;
  The kittens are gone to St. Paul's!
  The babies are bit,
  The moon's in a fit,
  And the houses are built without walls.

                          _Anonymous_.




TWEEDLE-DUM AND TWEEDLE-DEE

  Tweedle-dum and Tweedle-dee
      Resolved to have a battle,
  For Tweedle-dum said Tweedle-dee
      Had spoiled his nice new rattle.
  Just then flew by a monstrous crow,
      As big as a tar-barrel,
  Which frightened both the heroes so
      They quite forgot their quarrel.

                          _Anonymous_.




MARTIN TO HIS MAN

  Martin said to his man,
          Fie! man, fie!
  Oh, Martin said to his man,
          Who's the fool now?
  Martin said to his man,
  Fill thou the cup, and I the can;
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

  I see a sheep shearing corn,
          Fie! man, fie!
  I see a sheep shearing corn,
          Who's the fool now?
  I see a sheep shearing corn,
  And a cuckoo blow his horn;
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

  I see a man in the moon,
          Fie! man, fie!
  I see a man in the moon,
          Who's the fool now?
  I see a man in the moon,
  Clouting of St. Peter's shoon,
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

  I see a hare chase a hound,
          Fie! man, fie!
  I see a hare chase a hound,
          Who's the fool now?
  I see a hare chase a hound,
  Twenty mile above the ground;
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

  I see a goose ring a hog,
          Fie! man, fie!
  I see a goose ring a hog,
          Who's the fool now?
  I see a goose ring a hog,
  And a snail that bit a dog;
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

  I see a mouse catch the cat,
          Fie! man, fie!
  I see a mouse catch the cat,
          Who's the fool now?
  I see a mouse catch the cat,
  And the cheese to eat the rat;
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

                          From _Deuteromelia
                          printed in the reign of James I_.




_THE YONGHY-BONGHY-BO_

  I

  On the Coast of Coromandel
      Where the early pumpkins blow,
        In the middle of the woods
      Lived the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  Two old chairs, and half a candle,
  One old jug without a handle,--
      These were all his worldly goods:
      In the middle of the woods,
      These were all the worldly goods
    Of the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
    Of the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

  II

  Once, among the Bong-trees walking
    Where the early pumpkins blow,
      To a little heap of stones
    Came the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  There he heard a Lady talking,
  To some milk-white Hens of Dorking,--
        "'Tis the Lady Jingly Jones!
        On that little heap of stones
        Sits the Lady Jingly Jones!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.


  III

  "Lady Jingly! Lady Jingly!
      Sitting where the pumpkins blow,
        Will you come and be my wife?"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
  "I am tired of living singly,--
  On this coast so wild and shingly,--
        I'm a-weary of my life;
        If you'll come and be my wife,
        Quite serene would be my life!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.


  IV

  "On this Coast of Coromandel
      Shrimps and watercresses grow,
        Prawns are plentiful and cheap,"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  "You shall have my chairs and candle,
  And my jug without a handle!
        Gaze upon the rolling deep
        (Fish is plentiful and cheap):
        As the sea, my love is deep!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

  Lady Jingly answered sadly,
      And her tears began to flow,--
        "Your proposal comes too late,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
  I would be your wife most gladly!"
  (Here she twirled her fingers madly,)
        "But in England I've a mate!
        Yes! you've asked me far too late,
        For in England I've a mate,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!"


  VI

  Mr. Jones (his name is Handel,--
      Handel Jones, Esquire & Co.)
        Dorking fowls delights to send,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
  Keep, oh, keep your chairs and candle,
  And your jug without a handle,--
        I can merely be your friend!
        Should my Jones more Dorkings send,
        I will give you three, my friend!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!


  VII

  "Though you've such a tiny body,
      And your head so large doth grow,--
        Though your hat may blow away,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
  Though you're such a Hoddy Doddy,
  Yet I wish that I could modi-
        fy the words I needs must say!
        Will you please to go away?
        That is all I have to say,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!"


  VIII

  Down the slippery slopes of Myrtle,
      Where the early pumpkins blow,
        To the calm and silent sea
      Fled the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  There, beyond the Bay of Gurtle,
  Lay a large and lively Turtle.
        "You're the Cove," he said, "for me:
        On your back beyond the sea,
        Turtle, you shall carry me!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

  IX

  Through the silent roaring ocean
      Did the Turtle swiftly go;
        Holding fast upon his shell
      Rode the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  With a sad primaeval motion
  Toward the sunset isles of Boshen
        Still the Turtle bore him well,
        Holding fast upon his shell.
        "Lady Jingly Jones, farewell!"
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

  X

  From the Coast of Coromandel
      Did that Lady never go,
        On that heap of stones she mourns
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  On that Coast of Coromandel,
  In his jug without a handle
        Still she weeps, and daily moans;
        On the little heap of stones
        To her Dorking Hens she moans,
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

                          _Edward Lear_.




_THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES_

  The Pobble who has no toes
      Had once as many as we;
  When they said, "Some day you may lose them all,"
      He replied, "Fish fiddle de-dee!"
  And his Aunt Jobiska made him drink
  Lavender water tinged with pink;
  For she said, "The World in general knows
  There's nothing so good for a Pobble's toes!"

  The Pobble who has no toes
      Swam across the Bristol Channel;
  But before he set out he wrapped his nose
      In a piece of scarlet flannel.
  For his Aunt Jobiska said, "No harm
  Can come to his toes if his nose is warm;
  And it's perfectly known that a Pobble's toes
  Are safe--provided he minds his nose."

  The Pobble swam fast and well,
      And when boats or ships came near him,
  He tinkledy-binkledy-winkled a bell
      So that all the world could hear him.
  And all the Sailors and Admirals cried,
  When they saw him nearing the farther side,
  "He has gone to fish for his Aunt Jobiska's
  Runcible Cat with crimson whiskers!"

  But before he touched the shore--
      The shore of the Bristol Channel,
  A sea-green Porpoise carried away
      His wrapper of scarlet flannel.
  And when he came to observe his feet,
  Formerly garnished with toes so neat,
  His face at once became forlorn
  On perceiving that all his toes were gone!

  And nobody ever knew,
      From that dark day to the present,
  Whoso had taken the Pobble's toes,
      In a manner so far from pleasant.
  Whether the shrimps or crawfish gray,
  Or crafty mermaids stole them away,
  Nobody knew; and nobody knows
  How the Pobble was robbed of his twice five toes!

  The Pobble who has no toes
      Was placed in a friendly Bark,
  And they rowed him back and carried him up
      To his Aunt Jobiska's Park.
  And she made him a feast at his earnest wish,
  Of eggs and buttercups fried with fish;
  And she said, "It's a fact the whole world knows,
  That Pobbles are happier without their toes."

                          _Edward Lear_.




THE JUMBLIES

  I

  They went to sea in a sieve, they did;
      In a sieve they went to sea:
  In spite of all their friends could say,
  On a winter's morn, on a stormy day,
     In a sieve they went to sea.
  And when the sieve turned round and round,
  And every one cried, "You'll all be drowned!"
  They called aloud, "Our sieve ain't big;
  But we don't care a button, we don't care a fig:
      In a sieve we'll go to sea!"
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

  II

  They sailed away in a sieve, they did,
      In a sieve they sailed so fast,
  With only a beautiful pea-green veil
  Tied with a ribbon by way of a sail,
      To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
  And every one said who saw them go,
  "Oh! won't they soon be upset, you know?
  For the sky is dark and the voyage is long,
  And, happen what may, it's extremely wrong
      In a sieve to sail so fast."
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

  III

  The water it soon came in, it did;
      The water it soon came in:
  So, to keep them dry, they wrapped their feet
  In a pinky paper all folded neat;
      And they fastened it down with a pin.
  And they passed the night in a crockery-jar;
  And each of them said, "How wise we are!
  Though the sky be dark, and the voyage be long,
  Yet we never can think we were rash or wrong,
      While round in our sieve we spin."
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

  IV

  And all night long they sailed away;
      And when the sun went down,
  They whistled and warbled a moony song
  To the echoing sound of a coppery gong,
      In the shade of the mountains brown.
  "O Timballoo! How happy we are
  When we live in a sieve and a crockery-jar!
  And all night long, in the moonlight pale,
  We sail away with a pea-green sail
      In the shade of the mountains brown."
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

  V
  They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,--
      To a land all covered with trees;
  And they bought an owl and a useful cart,
  And a pound of rice, and a cranberry-tart,
      And a hive of silvery bees;
  And they bought a pig, and some green jackdaws,
  And a lovely monkey with lollipop paws,
  And forty bottles of ring-bo-ree,
      And no end of Stilton cheese.
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

  VI

  And in twenty years they all came back,--
      In twenty years or more;
  And every one said, "How tall they've grown!
  For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
      And the hills of the Chankly Bore."
  And they drank their health, and gave them a feast
  Of dumplings made of beautiful yeast;
  And every one said, "If we only live,
  We, too, will go to sea in a sieve,
      To the hills of the Chankly Bore."
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

                          _Edward Lear_.




INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF MY UNCLE ARLY

  I

  Oh! my aged Uncle Arly,
  Sitting on a heap of barley
        Through the silent hours of night,
  Close beside a leafy thicket;
  On his nose there was a cricket,
  In his hat a Railway-Ticket,
        (But his shoes were far too tight.)

  II

  Long ago, in youth, he squander'd
  All his goods away, and wander'd
        To the Timskoop-hills afar.
  There on golden sunsets glazing
  Every evening found him gazing,
  Singing, "Orb! you're quite amazing!
        How I wonder what you are!"

  III

  Like the ancient Medes and Persians,
  Always by his own exertions
        He subsisted on those hills;
  Whiles, by teaching children spelling,
  Or at times by merely yelling,
  Or at intervals by selling
        "Propter's Nicodemus Pills."

  IV

  Later, in his morning rambles,
  He perceived the moving brambles
        Something square and white disclose:--
  'Twas a First-class Railway-Ticket;
  But on stooping down to pick it
  Off the ground, a pea-green cricket
        Settled on my uncle's nose.

  V

  Never, nevermore, oh! never
  Did that cricket leave him ever,--
        Dawn or evening, day or night;
  Clinging as a constant treasure,
  Chirping with a cheerious measure,
  Wholly to my uncle's pleasure,
        (Though his shoes were far too tight.)

  VI

  So for three and forty winters,
  Till his shoes were worn to splinters
        All those hills he wander'd o'er,--
  Sometimes silent, sometimes yelling;
  Till he came to Borley-Melling,
  Near his old ancestral dwelling,
        (But his shoes were far too tight.)

  VII

  On a little heap of barley
  Died my aged Uncle Arly,
        And they buried him one night
  Close beside the leafy thicket;
  There, his hat and Railway-Ticket;
  There, his ever faithful cricket;
        (But his shoes were far too tight.)

                          _Edward Lear_.




LINES TO A YOUNG LADY

  How pleasant to know Mr. Lear!
      Who has written such volumes of stuff!
  Some think him ill-tempered and queer,
      But a few think him pleasant enough.

  His mind is concrete and fastidious,
      His nose is remarkably big;
  His visage is more or less hideous,
      His beard it resembles a wig.

  He has ears, and two eyes, and ten fingers,
      Leastways if you reckon two thumbs;
  Long ago he was one of the singers,
      But now he is one of the dumbs.

  He sits in a beautiful parlour,
      With hundreds of books on the wall;
  He drinks a great deal of Marsala,
      But never gets tipsy at all.

  He has many friends, laymen and clerical,
      Old Foss is the name of his cat:
  His body is perfectly spherical,
      He weareth a runcible hat.

  When he walks in a waterproof white,
      The children run after him so!
  Calling out, "He's come out in his night-
      Gown, that crazy old Englishman, oh!"

  He weeps by the side of the ocean,
      He weeps on the top of the hill;
  He purchases pancakes and lotion,
      And chocolate shrimps from the mill.

  He reads but he cannot speak Spanish,
      He cannot abide ginger-beer:
  Ere the days of his pilgrimage vanish,
      How pleasant to know Mr. Lear.

                          _Edward Lear_.




WAYS AND MEANS

  I'll tell thee everything I can;
      There's little to relate.
  I saw an aged aged man,
      A-sitting on a gate.
  "Who are you, aged man?" I said,
      "And how is it you live?"
  His answer trickled through my head
      Like water through a sieve.

  He said, "I look for butterflies
      That sleep among the wheat:
  I make them into mutton-pies,
      And sell them in the street.
  I sell them unto men," he said,
      "Who sail on stormy seas;
  And that's the way I get my bread--
      A trifle, if you please."

  But I was thinking of a plan
      To dye one's whiskers green,
  And always use so large a fan
      That they could not be seen.
  So, having no reply to give
      To what the old man said,
  I cried, "Come, tell me how you live!"
      And thumped him on the head.

  His accents mild took up the tale;
      He said, "I go my ways
  And when I find a mountain-rill
      I set it in a blaze;
  And thence they make a stuff they call
      Rowland's Macassar Oil--
  Yet twopence-halfpenny is all
      They give me for my toil."

  But I was thinking of a way
      To feed oneself on batter,
  And so go on from day to day
      Getting a little fatter.
  I shook him well from side to side,
      Until his face was blue;
  "Come, tell me how you live," I cried,
      "And what it is you do!"

  He said, "I hunt for haddock's eyes
      Among the heather bright,
  And work them into waistcoat-buttons
      In the silent night.
  And these I do not sell for gold
      Or coin of silvery shine,
  But for a copper halfpenny
      And that will purchase nine."

  "I sometimes dig for buttered rolls,
      Or set limed twigs for crabs;
  I sometimes search the grassy knolls
      For wheels of Hansom cabs.
  And that's the way" (he gave a wink)
      "By which I get my wealth--
  And very gladly will I drink
      Your Honor's noble health."

  I heard him then, for I had just
      Completed my design
  To keep the Menai Bridge from rust
      By boiling it in wine.
  I thanked him much for telling me
      The way he got his wealth,
  But chiefly for his wish that he
      Might drink my noble health.

  And now if e'er by chance I put
      My fingers into glue,
  Or madly squeeze a right-hand foot
      Into a left-hand shoe,
  Or if I drop upon my toe
      A very heavy weight,
  I weep, for it reminds me so
  Of that old man I used to know--
  Whose look was mild, whose speech was slow,
  Whose hair was whiter than the snow,
  Whose face was very like a crow,
  With eyes, like cinders, all aglow,
  Who seemed distracted with his woe,
  Who rocked his body to and fro,
  And muttered mumblingly, and low,
  As if his mouth were full of dough,
  Who snorted like a buffalo--
  That summer evening, long ago,
      A-sitting on a gate.

                          _Lewis Carroll_




THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER

  The sun was shining on the sea,
      Shining with all his might:
  He did his very best to make
      The billows smooth and bright--
  And this was odd, because it was
      The middle of the night.

  The moon was shining sulkily,
      Because she thought the sun
  Had got no business to be there
      After the day was done--
  "It's very rude of him," she said,
      "To come and spoil the fun!"

  The sea was wet as wet could be,
      The sands were dry as dry.
  You could not see a cloud, because
      No cloud was in the sky:
  No birds were flying overhead--
      There were no birds to fly.

  The Walrus and the Carpenter
      Were walking close at hand;
  They wept like anything to see
      Such quantities of sand:
  "If this were only cleared away,"
      They said, "it would be grand!"

  "If seven maids with seven mops
      Swept it for half a year,
  Do you suppose," the Walrus said,
      "That they could get it clear?"
  "I doubt it," said the Carpenter,
      And shed a bitter tear.

  "O Oysters come and walk with us!"
      The Walrus did beseech.
  "A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk,
      Along the briny beach:
  We cannot do with more than four,
      To give a hand to each."

  The eldest Oyster looked at him,
      But not a word he said:
  The eldest Oyster winked his eye,
      And shook his heavy head--
  Meaning to say he did not choose
      To leave the oyster-bed.

  But four young Oysters hurried up,
      All eager for the treat:
  Their coats were brushed, their faces washed,
      Their shoes were clean and neat--
  And this was odd, because, you know,
      They hadn't any feet.

  Four other Oysters followed them,
      And yet another four;
  And thick and fast they came at last,
      And more, and more, and more--
  All hopping through the frothy waves,
      And scrambling to the shore.

  The Walrus and the Carpenter
      Walked on a mile or so,
  And then they rested on a rock
      Conveniently low:
  And all the little Oysters stood
      And waited in a row.

  "The time has come," the Walrus said,
      "To talk of many things:
  Of shoes--and ships--and sealing-wax--
      Of cabbages--and kings--
  And why the sea is boiling hot--
      And whether pigs have wings."

  "But wait a bit," the Oysters cried,
      "Before we have our chat;
  For some of us are out of breath,
      And all of us are fat!"
  "No hurry!" said the Carpenter,
      They thanked him much for that.

  "A loaf of bread," the Walrus said,
      "Is what we chiefly need:
  Pepper and vinegar besides
      Are very good indeed--
  Now if you 're ready, Oysters dear,
      We can begin to feed."

  "But not on us!" the Oysters cried,
      Turning a little blue.
  "After such kindness that would be
      A dismal thing to do!"
  "The night is fine," the Walrus said,
      "Do you admire the view?"

  "It was so kind of you to come!
      And you are very nice!"
  The Carpenter said nothing but
      "Cut us another slice:
  I wish you were not quite so deaf--
      I've had to ask you twice!"

  "It seems a shame," the Walrus said,
      "To play them such a trick,
  After we've brought them out so far,
      And made them trot so quick!"
  The Carpenter said nothing but
     "The butter's spread too thick!"

  "I weep for you," the Walrus said;
      "I deeply sympathize."
  With sobs and tears he sorted out
      Those of the largest size,
  Holding his pocket-handkerchief
      Before his streaming eyes.

  "O Oysters," said the Carpenter,
      "You've had a pleasant run!
  Shall we be trotting home again?"
      But answer came there none--
  And this was scarcely odd, because
    They'd eaten every one.

                          _Lewis Carroll_.




THE HUNTING OF THE SNARK

  We have sailed many months, we have sailed many weeks,
      (Four weeks to the month you may mark),
  But never as yet ('tis your Captain who speaks)
      Have we caught the least glimpse of a Snark!

  "We have sailed many weeks, we have sailed many days,
      (Seven days to the week I allow),
  But a Snark, on the which we might lovingly gaze,
      We have never beheld until now!"

  "Come, listen, my men, while I tell you again
      The five unmistakable marks
  By which you may know, wheresoever you go,
      The warranted genuine Snarks."

  "Let us take them in order. The first is the taste,
      Which is meagre and hollow, but crisp:
  Like a coat that is rather too tight in the waist,
      With a flavour of Will-o-the-wisp."

  "Its habit of getting up late you'll agree
      That it carries too far, when I say
  That it frequently breakfasts at five-o'clock tea,
      And dines on the following day."

  "The third is its slowness in taking a jest.
      Should you happen to venture on one,
  It will sigh like a thing that is greatly distressed;
      And it always looks grave at a pun."

  "The fourth is its fondness for bathing-machines,
      Which it constantly carries about,
  And believes that they add to the beauty of scenes--
      A sentiment open to doubt."

  "The fifth is ambition. It next will be right
      To describe each particular batch;
  Distinguishing those that have feathers, and bite,
      From those that have whiskers, and scratch."

  "For, although common Snarks do no manner of harm,
      Yet I feel it my duty to say
  Some are Boojums--" The Bellman broke off in alarm,
      For the Baker had fainted away.

  They roused him with muffins--they roused him with ice--
      They roused him with mustard and cress--
  They roused him with jam and judicious advice--
      They set him conundrums to guess.

  When at length he sat up and was able to speak,
      His sad story he offered to tell;
  And the Bellman cried, "Silence! Not even a shriek!"
      And excitedly tingled his bell.

  "My father and mother were honest, though poor--"
      "Skip all that!" cried the Bellman in haste,
  "If it once becomes dark, there's no chance of a Snark,
      We have hardly a minute to waste!"

  "I skip forty years," said the Baker, in tears,
      "And proceed without further remark
  To the day when you took me aboard of your ship
      To help you in hunting the Snark."

  "You may seek it with thimbles--and seek it with care;
      You may hunt it with forks and hope;
  You may threaten its life with a railway-share;
      You may charm it with smiles and soap--"

  "I said it in Hebrew--I said it in Dutch--
      I said it in German and Greek;
  But I wholly forgot (and it vexes me much)
      That English is what you speak!"

  "The thing can be done," said the Butcher, "I think
      The thing must be done, I am sure.
  The thing shall be done! Bring me paper and ink,
      The best there is time to procure."

  So engrossed was the Butcher, he heeded them not,
      As he wrote with a pen in each hand,
  And explained all the while in a popular style
      Which the Beaver could well understand.

  "Taking Three as the subject to reason about--
      A convenient number to state--
  We add Seven and Ten and then multiply out
      By One Thousand diminished by Eight."

  "The result we proceed to divide, as you see,
      By Nine Hundred and Ninety and Two;
  Then subtract Seventeen, and the answer must be
      Exactly and perfectly true."

  "As to temper, the Jubjub's a desperate bird,
      Since it lives in perpetual passion:
  Its taste in costume is entirely absurd--
      It is ages ahead of the fashion."

  "Its flavor when cooked is more exquisite far
      Than mutton or oysters or eggs:
  (Some think it keeps best in an ivory jar,
      And some, in mahogany kegs.)"

  "You boil it in sawdust; you salt it in glue:
      You condense it with locusts and tape;
  Still keeping one principal object in view--
      To preserve its symmetrical shape."

  The Butcher would gladly have talked till next day,
      But he felt that the Lesson must end,
  And he wept with delight in attempting to say
      He considered the Beaver his friend.

                          _Lewis Carroll_.




_SYLVIE AND BRUNO_

  He thought he saw a Banker's clerk
      Descending from the 'bus;
  He looked again, and found it was
      A Hippopotamus.
  "If this should stay to dine," he said,
      "There won't be much for us!"

  He thought he saw an Albatross
      That fluttered round the lamp:
  He looked again, and found it was
      A Penny-Postage-Stamp.
  "You'd best be getting home," he said;
      "The nights are very damp!"

  He thought he saw a Coach-and-Four
      That stood beside his bed:
  He looked again, and found it was
      A Bear without a Head.
  "Poor thing," he said, "poor silly thing!
      It's waiting to be fed!"

  He thought he saw a Kangaroo
      That worked a coffee-mill:
  He looked again, and found it was
      A Vegetable-Pill.
  "Were I to swallow this," he said,
      "I should be very ill!"

  He thought he saw a Rattlesnake
      That questioned him in Greek:
  He looked again, and found it was
      The Middle of Next Week.
  "The one thing I regret," he said,
      "Is that it cannot speak!"

                          _Lewis Carroll_.




GENTLE ALICE BROWN

  It was a robber's daughter, and her name was Alice Brown.
  Her father was the terror of a small Italian town;
  Her mother was a foolish, weak, but amiable old thing;
  But it isn't of her parents that I'm going for to sing.

  As Alice was a-sitting at her window-sill one day,
  A beautiful young gentleman he chanced to pass that way;
  She cast her eyes upon him, and he looked so good and true,
  That she thought, "I could be happy with a gentleman like you!"

  And every morning passed her house that cream of gentlemen,
  She knew she might expect him at a quarter unto ten,
  A sorter in the Custom-house, it was his daily road
  (The Custom-house was fifteen minutes' walk from her abode.)

  But Alice was a pious girl, who knew it wasn't wise
  To look at strange young sorters with expressive purple eyes;
  So she sought the village priest to whom her family confessed,
  The priest by whom their little sins were carefully assessed.

  "Oh, holy father,"  Alice said, "'twould grieve you, would it not?
  To discover that I was a most disreputable lot!
  Of all unhappy sinners I'm the most unhappy one!"
  The padre said, "Whatever have you been and gone and done?"

  "I have helped mamma to steal a little kiddy from its dad,
  I've assisted dear papa in cutting up a little lad.
  I've planned a little burglary and forged a little check,
  And slain a little baby for the coral on its neck!"

  The worthy pastor heaved a sigh, and dropped a silent tear--
  And said, "You mustn't judge yourself too heavily, my dear--
  It's wrong to murder babies, little corals for to fleece;
  But sins like these one expiates at half-a-crown apiece."

  "Girls will be girls--you're very young, and flighty in your mind;
  Old heads upon young shoulders we must not expect to find:
  We mustn't be too hard upon these little girlish tricks--
  Let's see--five crimes at half-a-crown--exactly twelve-and-six."

  "Oh, father," little Alice cried, "your kindness makes me weep,
  You do these little things for me so singularly cheap--
  Your thoughtful liberality I never can forget;
  But O there is another crime I haven't mentioned yet!"

  "A pleasant-looking gentleman, with pretty purple eyes,
  I've noticed at my window, as I've sat a-catching flies;
  He passes by it every day as certain as can be--
  I blush to say I've winked at him and he has winked at me!"

  "For shame," said Father Paul, "my erring daughter! On my word
  This is the most distressing news that I have ever heard.
  Why, naughty girl, your excellent papa has pledged your hand
  To a promising young robber, the lieutenant of his band!"

  "This dreadful piece of news will pain your worthy parents so!
  They are the most remunerative customers I know;
  For many many years they've kept starvation from my doors,
  I never knew so criminal a family as yours!"

  "The common country folk in this insipid neighborhood
  Have nothing to confess, they're so ridiculously good;
  And if you marry any one respectable at all,
  Why, you'll reform, and what will then become of Father Paul?"

  The worthy priest, he up and drew his cowl upon his crown,
  And started off in haste to tell the news to Robber Brown;
  To tell him how his daughter, who now was for marriage fit,
  Had winked upon a sorter, who reciprocated it.

  Good Robber Brown, he muffled up his anger pretty well,
  He said, "I have a notion, and that notion I will tell;
  I will nab this gay young sorter, terrify him into fits,
  And get my gentle wife to chop him into little bits."

  "I've studied human nature, and I know a thing or two,
  Though a girl may fondly love a living gent, as many do--
  A feeling of disgust upon her senses there will fall
  When she looks upon his body chopped particularly small."

  He traced that gallant sorter to a still suburban square;
  He watched his opportunity and seized him unaware;
  He took a life-preserver and he hit him on the head,
  And Mrs. Brown dissected him before she went to bed.

  And pretty little Alice grew more settled in her mind,
  She nevermore was guilty of a weakness of the kind,
  Until at length good Robber Brown bestowed her pretty hand
  On the promising young robber, the lieutenant of his band.

                          _W.S. Gilbert_.




THE STORY OF PRINCE AGIB

  Strike the concertina's melancholy string!
  Blow the spirit-stirring harp like any thing!
          Let the piano's martial blast
          Rouse the Echoes of the Past,
  For of Agib, Prince of Tartary, I sing!

  Of Agib, who amid Tartaric scenes,
  Wrote a lot of ballet-music in his teens:
          His gentle spirit rolls
          In the melody of souls--
  Which is pretty, but I don't know what it means

  Of Agib, who could readily, at sight,
  Strum a march upon the loud Theodolite:
          He would diligently play
          On the Zoetrope all day,
  And blow the gay Pantechnicon all night.

  One winter--I am shaky in my dates--
  Came two starving minstrels to his gates,
          Oh, Allah be obeyed,
          How infernally they played!
  I remember that they called themselves the "Oiiaits."

  Oh! that day of sorrow, misery, and rage,
  I shall carry to the Catacombs of Age,
          Photographically lined
          On the tablet of my mind,
  When a yesterday has faded from its page!

  Alas! Prince Agib went and asked them in!
  Gave them beer, and eggs, and sweets, and scents, and tin.
          And when (as snobs would say)
          They "put it all away,"
  He requested them to tune up and begin.

  Though its icy horror chill you to the core,
  I will tell you what I never told before,
          The consequences true
          Of that awful interview,
  _For I listened at the key-hole in the door_!

  They played him a sonata--let me see!
  "_Medulla oblongata_"--key of G.
          Then they began to sing
          That extremely lovely thing,
  "Scherzando! ma non troppo, ppp."

  He gave them money, more than they could count,
  Scent, from a most ingenious little fount,
          More beer, in little kegs,
          Many dozen hard-boiled eggs,
  And goodies to a fabulous amount.

  Now follows the dim horror of my tale,
  And I feel I'm growing gradually pale,
          For, even at this day,
          Though its sting has passed away,
  When I venture to remember it, I quail!

  The elder of the brothers gave a squeal,
  All-overish it made me for to feel!
          "Oh Prince," he says, says he,
          "_If a Prince indeed you be_,
  I've a mystery I'm going to reveal!"

  "Oh, listen, if you'd shun a horrid death,
  To what the gent who's speaking to you, saith:
          No 'Oiiaits' in truth are we,
          As you fancy that we be,
  For (ter-remble) I am Aleck--this is Beth!"

  Said Agib, "Oh! accursed of your kind,
  I have heard that you are men of evil mind!"
          Beth gave a dreadful shriek--
          But before he'd time to speak
  I was mercilessly collared from behind.

  In number ten or twelve or even more,
  They fastened me, full length upon the floor.
          On my face extended flat
          I was walloped with a cat
  For listening at the key-hole of the door.

  Oh! the horror of that agonizing thrill!
  (I can feel the place in frosty weather still).
          For a week from ten to four
          I was fastened to the floor,
  While a mercenary wopped me with a will!

  They branded me, and broke me on a wheel,
  And they left me in an hospital to heal;
          And, upon my solemn word,
          I have never never heard
  What those Tartars had determined to reveal.

  But that day of sorrow, misery, and rage,
  I shall carry to the Catacombs of Age,
          Photographically lined
          On the tablet of my mind,
  When a yesterday has faded from its page!

                          _W.S. Gilbert_.




FERDINANDO AND ELVIRA, OR THE GENTLE PIEMAN

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Love you?" said I, then I sighed, and then I gazed upon her
       sweetly--
  For I think I do this sort of thing particularly neatly--

  "Tell me whither I may his me, tell me, dear one, that I may know--
  Is it up the highest Andes? down a horrible volcano?"

  But she said, "It isn't polar bears, or hot volcanic grottoes,
  Only find out who it is that writes those lovely cracker mottoes."

  Seven weary years I wandered--Patagonia, China, Norway,
  Till at last I sank exhausted, at a pastrycook his doorway.

  And he chirped and sang and skipped about, and laughed with
       laughter hearty,
  He was wonderfully active for so very stout a party.

  And I said, "Oh, gentle pieman, why so very, very merry?
  Is it purity of conscience, or your one-and-seven sherry?"

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Then I polish all the silver which a supper-table lacquers;
  Then I write the pretty mottoes which you find inside the crackers."

  "Found at last!" I madly shouted. "Gentle pieman, you astound me!"
  Then I waved the turtle soup enthusiastically round me.

  And I shouted and I danced until he'd quite a crowd around him,
  And I rushed away, exclaiming, "I have found him! I have found him!"

                          _W.S. Gilbert_.




GENERAL JOHN

  The bravest names for fire and flames,
      And all that mortal durst,
  Were General John and Private James,
      Of the Sixty-seventy-first.

  General John was a soldier tried,
      A chief of warlike dons;
  A haughty stride and a withering pride
      Were Major-General John.

  A sneer would play on his martial phiz,
      Superior birth to show;
  "Pish!" was a favorite word of his,
      And he often said "Ho! Ho!"

  Full-Private James described might be,
      As a man of mournful mind;
  No characteristic trait had he
      Of any distinctive kind.

  From the ranks, one day, cried Private James,
      "Oh! Major-General John,
  I've doubts of our respective names,
      My mournful mind upon."

  "A glimmering thought occurs to me,
      (Its source I can't unearth),
  But I've a kind of notion we
      Were cruelly changed at birth."

  "I've a strange idea, each other's names
      That we have each got on.
  Such things have been," said Private James.
      "They have!" sneered General John.

  "My General John, I swear upon
      My oath I think it is so--"
  "Pish!" proudly sneered his General John,
      And he also said "Ho! ho!"

  "My General John! my General John!
      My General John!" quoth he,
  "This aristocratical sneer upon
      Your face I blush to see."

  "No truly great or generous cove
      Deserving of them names
  Would sneer at a fixed idea that's drove
      In the mind of a Private James!"

  Said General John, "Upon your claims
      No need your breath to waste;
  If this is a joke, Full-Private James,
      It's a joke of doubtful taste."

  "But being a man of doubtless worth,
      If you feel certain quite
  That we were probably changed at birth,
      I'll venture to say you're right."

  So General John as Private James
      Fell in, parade upon;
  And Private James, by change of names,
      Was Major-General John.

                          _W.S. Gilbert_




LITTLE BILLEE

  There were three sailors of Bristol City
      Who took a boat and went to sea,
  But first with beef and captain's biscuits,
      And pickled pork they loaded she.

  There was gorging Jack, and guzzling Jimmy,
      And the youngest he was little Billee.
  Now when they'd got as far as the Equator,
      They'd nothing left but one split pea.

  Says gorging Jack to guzzling Jimmy,
      "I am extremely hungaree."
  To gorging Jack says guzzling Jimmy,
      "We've nothing left, us must eat we."

  Says gorging Jack to guzzling Jimmy,
      "With one another we shouldn't agree!
  There's little Bill, he's young and tender,
      We're old and tough, so let's eat he."

  "O Billy! we're going to kill and eat you,
      So undo the button of your chemie."
  When Bill received this information,
      He used his pocket-handkerchie,

  "First let me say my catechism,
      Which my poor mother taught to me."
  "Make haste! make haste!" says guzzling Jimmy,
      While Jack pulled out his snicker-snee.

  Then Bill went up to the main-top-gallant-mast,
      And down he fell on his bended knee,
  He scarce had come to the Twelfth Commandment
      When up he jumps--"There's land I see!"

  "Jerusalem and Madagascar,
      And North and South Amerikee,
  There's the British flag a-riding at anchor,
      With Admiral Napier, K.C.B."

  So when they got aboard of the Admiral's,
      He hanged fat Jack and flogged Jimmee,
  But as for little Bill, he made him
      The captain of a Seventy-three.

                          _W. M. Thackeray_.




_THE WRECK OF THE "JULIE PLANTE_"

  On wan dark night on Lac St. Pierre,
      De win' she blow, blow, blow,
  An' de crew of de wood scow "Julie Plante"
      Got scar't an' run below--
  For de win' she blow lak hurricane;
      Bimeby she blow some more,
  An' de scow bus' up on Lac St. Pierre
      Wan arpent from de shore.

  De captinne walk on de fronte deck,
      An' walk de him' deck too--
  He call de crew from up de hole,
      He call de cook also.
  De cook she's name was Rosie,
      She come from Montreal,
  Was chambre maid on lumber barge,
      On de Grande Lachine Canal.

  De win' she blow from nor'-eas'-wes',--
      De sout' win' she blow too,
  Wen Rosie cry, "Mon cher captinne,
      Mon cher, w'at I shall do?"
  Den de captinne t'row de big ankerre,
      But still de scow she dreef,
  De crew he can't pass on de shore,
      Becos he los' hees skeef.

  De night was dark lak wan black cat,
      De wave run high an' fas',
  Wen de captinne tak' de Rosie girl
      An' tie her to de mas'.
  Den he also tak' de life preserve,
      An' jomp off on de lak',
  An' say, "Good-by, ma Rosie dear,
      I go down for your sak'."

  Nex' morning very early
      'Bout ha'f-pas' two--t'ree--four--
  De captinne--scow--an' de poor Rosie
      Was corpses on de shore.
  For de win' she blow lak' hurricane,
      Bimeby she blow some more,
  An' de scow, bus' up on Lac St. Pierre,
      Wan arpent from de shore.

  MORAL

  Now all good wood scow sailor man
      Tak' warning by dat storm
  An' go an' marry some nice French girl
      An' live on wan beeg farm.
  De win' can blow lak' hurricane
      An' s'pose she blow some more,
  You can't get drown on Lac St. Pierre
      So long you stay on shore.

                          _William H. Drummond_.




THE SHIPWRECK

  Upon the poop the captain stands,
      As starboard as may be;
  And pipes on deck the topsail hands
  To reef the topsail-gallant strands
      Across the briny sea.

  "Ho! splice the anchor under-weigh!"
      The captain loudly cried;
  "Ho! lubbers brave, belay! belay!
  For we must luff for Falmouth Bay
      Before to-morrow's tide."

  The good ship was a racing yawl,
      A spare-rigged schooner sloop,
  Athwart the bows the taffrails all
  In grummets gay appeared to fall,
      To deck the mainsail poop.

  But ere they made the Foreland Light,
      And Deal was left behind,
  The wind it blew great gales that night,
  And blew the doughty captain tight,
      Full three sheets in the wind.

  And right across the tiller head
      The horse it ran apace,
  Whereon a traveller hitched and sped
  Along the jib and vanished
      To heave the trysail brace.

  What ship could live in such a sea?
      What vessel bear the shock?
  "Ho! starboard port your helm-a-lee!
  Ho! reef the maintop-gallant-tree,
      With many a running block!"

  And right upon the Scilly Isles
      The ship had run aground;
  When lo! the stalwart Captain Giles
  Mounts up upon the gaff and smiles,
      And slews the compass round.

  "Saved! saved!" with joy the sailors cry,
      And scandalize the skiff;
  As taut and hoisted high and dry
  They see the ship unstoppered lie
      Upon the sea-girt cliff.

  And since that day in Falmouth Bay,
      As herring-fishers trawl,
  The younkers hear the boatswains say
  How Captain Giles that awful day
      Preserved the sinking yawl.

                          _E.H. Palmer_.




_A SAILOR'S YARN_

  _As narrated by the second mate to one of the marines_.

  This is the tale that was told to me,
  By a battered and shattered son of the sea:
  To me and my messmate, Silas Green,
  When I was a guileless young marine.

  "'T was the good ship 'Gyacutus,'
  All in the China seas;
  With the wind a lee, and the capstan free,
  To catch the summer breeze."

  "'T was Captain Porgie on the deck
  To the mate in the mizzen hatch,
  While the boatswain bold, in the for'ard hold,
  Was winding his larboard watch."

  "'Oh, how does our good ship head to-night?
  How heads our gallant craft?'
  'Oh, she heads to the E. S. W. by N.
  And the binnacle lies abaft.'"

  "'Oh, what does the quadrant indicate?
  And how does the sextant stand?'
  'Oh, the sextant's down to the freezing point
  And the quadrant's lost a hand.'"

  "'Oh, if the quadrant's lost a hand,
  And the sextant falls so low,
  It's our body and bones to Davy Jones
  This night are bound to go."

  "'Oh, fly aloft to the garboard-strake,
  And reef the spanker boom,
  Bend a stubbing sail on the martingale
  To give her weather room."

  "'Oh, boatswain, down in the for'ard hold
  What water do you find?'
  'Four foot and a half by the royal gaff
  And rather more behind.'"

  "'Oh, sailors, collar your marline spikes
  And each belaying pin;
  Come, stir your stumps to spike the pumps,
  Or more will be coming in.'"

  "'They stirred their stumps, they spiked the pumps
  They spliced the mizzen brace;
  Aloft and alow they worked, but, oh!
  The water gained apace."

  "They bored a hole below her line
  To let the water out,
  But more and more with awful roar
  The water in did spout."

  "Then up spoke the cook of our gallant ship--
  And he was a lubber brave--
  'I've several wives in various ports,
  And my life I'd like to save.'"

  "Then up spoke the captain of marines,
  Who dearly loved his prog:
  'It's awful to die, and it's worse to be dry,
  And I move we pipes to grog.'"

  "Oh, then 'twas the gallant second-mate
  As stopped them sailors' jaw,
  'Twas the second-mate whose hand had weight
  In laying down the law."

  "He took the anchor on his back,
  And leapt into the main;
  Through foam and spray he clove his way,
  And sunk, and rose again."

  "Through foam and spray a league away
  The anchor stout he bore,
  Till, safe at last, I made it fast,
  And warped the ship ashore."

  This is the tale that was told to me,
  By that modest and truthful son of the sea.
  And I envy the life of a second mate,
  Though captains curse him and sailors hate;
  For he ain't like some of the swabs I've seen,
  As would go and lie to a poor marine.

                          _J.J. Rache_.




THE WALLOPING WINDOW-BLIND

  A capital ship for an ocean trip
      Was the "Walloping Window-blind"--
  No gale that blew dismayed her crew
      Or troubled the captain's mind.
  The man at the wheel was taught to feel
      Contempt for the wildest blow,
  And it often appeared, when the weather had cleared,
      That he'd been in his bunk below.

  The boatswain's mate was very sedate,
      Yet fond of amusement, too;
  And he played hop-scotch with the starboard watch,
      While the captain tickled the crew.
  And the gunner we had was apparently mad,
      For he sat on the after rail,
  And fired salutes with the captain's boots,
      In the teeth of the booming gale.

  The captain sat in a commodore's hat
      And dined in a royal way
  On toasted pigs and pickles and figs
      And gummery bread each day.
  But the cook was Dutch and behaved as such:
      For the food that he gave the crew
  Was a number of tons of hot-cross buns
      Chopped up with sugar and glue.

  And we all felt ill as mariners will,
      On a diet that's cheap and rude;
  And we shivered and shook as we dipped the cook
      In a tub of his gluesome food.
  Then nautical pride we laid aside,
      And we cast the vessel ashore
  On the Gulliby Isles, where the Poohpooh smiles,
      And the Anagazanders roar.

  Composed of sand was that favored land,
      And trimmed with cinnamon straws;
  And pink and blue was the pleasing hue
      Of the Tickletoeteaser's claws.
  And we sat on the edge of a sandy ledge
      And shot at the whistling bee;
  And the Binnacle-bats wore water-proof hats
      As they danced in the sounding sea.

  On rubagub bark, from dawn to dark,
      We fed, till we all had grown
  Uncommonly shrunk,--when a Chinese junk
      Came by from the torriby zone.
  She was stubby and square, but we didn't much care,
      And we cheerily put to sea;
  And we left the crew of the junk to chew
      The bark of the rubagub tree.

                          _Charles E. Carryl_.




THE ROLLICKING MASTODON

  A rollicking Mastodon lived in Spain,
      In the trunk of a Tranquil Tree.
  His face was plain, but his jocular vein
      Was a burst of the wildest glee.
  His voice was strong and his laugh so long
      That people came many a mile,
  And offered to pay a guinea a day
      For the fractional part of a smile.

      The Rollicking Mastodon's laugh was wide--
        Indeed, 't was a matter of family pride;
      And oh! so proud of his jocular vein
        Was the Rollicking Mastodon over in Spain.

  The Rollicking Mastodon said one day,
      "I feel that I need some air,
  For a little ozone's a tonic for bones,
      As well as a gloss for the hair."
  So he skipped along and warbled a song
      In his own triumphulant way.
  His smile was bright and his skip was light
      As he chirruped his roundelay.

      The Rollicking Mastodon tripped along,
        And sang what Mastodons call a song;
      But every note of it seemed to pain
        The Rollicking Mastodon over in Spain.

  A Little Peetookle came over the hill,
      Dressed up in a bollitant coat;
  And he said, "You need some harroway seed,
      And a little advice for your throat."
  The Mastodon smiled and said, "My child,
      There's a chance for your taste to grow.
  If you polish your mind, you'll certainly find
      How little, how little you know."

  The Little Peetookle, his teeth he ground
      At the Mastodon's singular sense of sound;
  For he felt it a sort of a musical stain
      On the Rollicking Mastodon over in Spain.
  "Alas! and alas! has it come to this pass?"
      Said the Little Peetookle. "Dear me!
  It certainly seems your horrible screams
      Intended for music must be!"

  The Mastodon stopped, his ditty he dropped,
      And murmured, "Good morning, my dear!
  I never will sing to a sensitive thing
      That shatters a song with a sneer!"
  The Rollicking Mastodon bade him "adieu."
      Of course 't was a sensible thing to do;
  For Little Peetookle is spared the strain
      Of the Rollicking Mastodon over in Spain.

                          _Arthur Macy_.




THE SILVER QUESTION

  The Sun appeared so smug and bright,
      One day, that I made bold
  To ask him what he did each night
      With all his surplus gold.

  He flushed uncomfortably red,
      And would not meet my eye.
  "I travel round the world," he said,
      "And travelling rates are high."

  With frigid glance I pierced him through.
      He squirmed and changed his tune.
  Said he: "I will be frank with you:
      I lend it to the Moon."

  "Poor thing! You know she's growing old
      And hasn't any folk.
  She suffers terribly from cold,
      And half the time she's broke."

       *       *       *       *       *

  That evening on the beach I lay
      Behind a lonely dune,
  And as she rose above the bay
      I buttonholed the Moon.

  "Tell me about that gold," said I.
      I saw her features fall.
  "You see, it's useless to deny;
      The Sun has told me all."

  "Sir!" she exclaimed, "how _can_ you try
      An honest Moon this way?
  As for the gold, I put it by
      Against a rainy day."

  I smiled and shook my head. "All right,
      If you _must_ know," said she,
  "I change it into silver bright
      Wherewith to tip the Sea."

  "He is so faithful and so good,
      A most deserving case;
  If he should leave, I fear it would
      Be hard to fill his place."

       *       *       *       *       *

  When asked if they accepted tips,
      The waves became so rough;
  I thought of those at sea in ships,
      And felt I'd said enough.

  For if one virtue I have learned,
      'Tis _tact_; so I forbore
  To press the matter, though I burned
      To ask one question more.

  I hate a scene, and do not wish
      To be mixed up in gales,
  But, oh, I longed to ask the Fish
      Whence came their silver scales!

                          _Oliver Herfora_.




THE SINGULAR SANGFROID OF BABY BUNTING

  Bartholomew Benjamin Bunting
      Had only three passions in life,
  And one of the trio was hunting,
      The others his babe and his wife.
  And always, so rigid his habits,
      He frolicked at home until two,
  And then started hunting for rabbits,
      And hunted till fall of the dew.

  Belinda Bellonia Bunting,
      Thus widowed for half of the day,
  Her duty maternal confronting,
      With baby would patiently play.
  When thus was her energy wasted,
      A patented food she'd dispense.
  (She had bought it the day that they pasted
      The posters all over her fence.)

  But Bonaparte Buckingham Bunting,
      The infant thus blindly adored,
  Replied to her worship by grunting,
      Which showed he was brutally bored.
  'Twas little he cared for the troubles
      Of life. Like a crab on the sands,
  From his sweet little mouth he blew bubbles,
      And threatened the air with his hands.

  Bartholomew Benjamin Bunting
      One night, as his wife let him in,
  Produced as the fruit of his hunting
      A cottontail's velvety skin,
  Which, seeing young Bonaparte wriggle,
      He gave him without a demur,
  And the babe with an aqueous giggle
      He swallowed the whole of the fur!

  Belinda Bellonia Bunting
      Behaved like a consummate loon:
  Her offspring in frenzy confronting
      She screamed herself mottled maroon:
  She felt of his vertebrae spinal,
      Expecting he'd surely succumb,
  And gave him one vigorous, final,
      Hard prod in the pit of his tum.

  But Bonaparte Buckingham Bunting,
      At first but a trifle perplexed,
  By a change in his manner of grunting
      Soon showed he was horribly vexed.
  He displayed not a sign of repentance
      But spoke, in a dignified tone,
  The only consecutive sentence
      He uttered. 'Twas: "Lemme alone."

  The Moral: The parent that uses
      Precaution his folly regrets:
  An infant gets all that he chooses,
      An infant chews all that he gets.

  And colics? He constantly has 'em
      So long as his food is the best,
  But he'll swallow with never a spasm
      What ostriches couldn't digest.

                          _Guy Wetmore Carryl_.




FAITHLESS NELLY GRAY

  Ben Battle was a soldier bold,
      And used to war's alarms:
  But a cannon-ball took off his legs,
      So he laid down his arms!

  Now, as they bore him off the field,
      Said he, "Let others shoot,
  For here I leave my second leg,
      And the Forty-second Foot!"

  The army surgeons made him limbs:
      Said he, "They're only pegs;
  But there's as wooden members quite,
      As represent my legs!"

  Now Ben he loved a pretty maid,
      Her name was Nelly Gray;
  So he went to pay her his devours
      When he'd devoured his pay!

  But when he called on Nelly Gray,
      She made him quite a scoff;
  And when she saw his wooden legs,
      Began to take them off!

  "O Nelly Gray! O Nelly Gray!
      Is this your love so warm?
  The love that loves a scarlet coat,
      Should be more uniform!"

  Said she, "I loved a soldier once,
      For he was blithe and brave;
  But I will never have a man
      With both legs in the grave!"

  "Before you had those timber toes,
      Your love I did allow,
  But then you know, you stand upon
      Another footing now!"

  "O Nelly Gray! O Nelly Gray!
      For all your jeering speeches,
  At duty's call I left my legs
      In Badajos's breaches!"

  "Why, then," said she, "you've lost the feet
      Of legs in war's alarms,
  And now you cannot wear your shoes
      Upon your feats of arms!"

  "Oh, false and fickle Nelly Gray;
      I know why you refuse:
  Though I've no feet--some other man
      Is standing in my shoes!"

  "I wish I ne'er had seen your face;
      But now a long farewell!
  For you will be my death--alas!
      You will not be my Nell!"

  Now, when he went from Nelly Gray,
      His heart so heavy got--
  And life was such a burden grown,
      It made him take a knot!

  So round his melancholy neck
      A rope he did entwine,
  And, for his second time in life
      Enlisted in the Line!

  One end he tied around a beam,
      And then removed his pegs,
  And as his legs were off,--of course,
      He soon was off his legs!

  And there he hung till he was dead
      As any nail in town,--
  For though distress had cut him up,
      It could not cut him down!

  A dozen men sat on his corpse,
      To find out why he died--
  And they buried Ben in four cross-roads,
      With a stake in his inside!

                          _Thomas Hood_.




THE ELDERLY GENTLEMAN

  By the side of a murmuring stream an elderly gentleman sat.
  On the top of his head was a wig, and a-top of his wig was his hat.

  The wind it blew high and blew strong, as the elderly gentleman sat;
  And bore from his head in a trice, and plunged in the river his hat.

  The gentleman then took his cane which lay by his side as he sat;
  And he dropped in the river his wig, in attempting to get out his
       hat.

  His breast it grew cold with despair, and full in his eye madness
       sat;
  So he flung in the river his cane to swim with his wig, and his hat.

  Cool reflection at last came across while this elderly gentleman
       sat;
  So he thought he would follow the stream and look for his cane, wig,
       and hat.

  His head being thicker than common, o'er-balanced the rest of his
       fat;
  And in plumped this son of a woman to follow his wig, cane, and hat.

                          _George Canning_.




MALUM OPUS

  Prope ripam fluvii solus
      A senex silently sat;
  Super capitum ecce his wig,
      Et wig super, ecce his hat.

  Blew Zephyrus alte, acerbus,
      Dum elderly gentleman sat;
  Et a capite took up quite torve
      Et in rivum projecit his hat.

  Tunc soft maledixit the old man,
      Tunc stooped from the bank where he sat
  Et cum scipio poked in the water,
      Conatus servare his hat.

  Blew Zephyrus alte, acerbus,
      The moment it saw him at that;
  Et whisked his novum scratch wig
      In flumen, along with his hat.

  Ab imo pectore damnavit
      In coeruleus eye dolor sat;
  Tunc despairingly threw in his cane
      Nare cum his wig and his hat.

  L'ENVOI

  Contra bonos mores, don't swear
      It 'est wicked you know (verbum sat),
  Si this tale habet no other moral
      Mehercle! You're gratus to that!

                          _James Appleton Morgan_.




_ÆSTIVATION_

  In candent ire the solar splendor flames;
  The foles, languescent, pend from arid rames;
  His humid front the cive, anheling, wipes,
  And dreams of erring on ventiferous ripes.

  How dulce to vive occult to mortal eyes,
  Dorm on the herb with none to supervise,
  Carp the suave berries from the crescent vine,
  And bibe the flow from longicaudate kine.

  To me also, no verdurous visions come
  Save you exiguous pool's confervascum,--
  No concave vast repeats the tender hue
  That laves my milk-jug with celestial blue.

  Me wretched!  Let me curr to quercine shades!
  Effund your albid hausts, lactiferous maids!
  Oh, might I vole to some umbrageous chump,--
  Depart,--be off,--excede,--evade,--erump!

                          _O. W. Holmes_.




A HOLIDAY TASK

  _Air--Jullien's Polka_

  Qui nunc dancere vult modo
  Wants to dance in the fashion, oh!
  Discere debet--ought to know,
  Kickere floor cum heel et toe
        One, two three,
        Hop with me,
  Whirligig, twirligig, rapidè.

  Polkam jungere, Virgo, vis,
  Will you join the Polka, Miss?
  Liberius--most willingly.
  Sic agimus--then let us try:
        Nunc vide
        Skip with me,
  Whirlabout, roundabout, celerè.

  Tum laevâ citò, tum dextrâ
  First to the left, and then t' other way;
  Aspice retrò in vultu,
  You look at her, and she looks at you.
        Das palmam,
        Change hands ma'am
  Celerè--run away, just in sham.

                          _Gilbert Abbott à Becket_.




PUER EX JERSEY

  Puer ex Jersey
  Iens ad school;
  Vidit in meadow,
  Infestum mule.

  Ille approaches
  O magnus sorrow!
  Puer it skyward.
  Funus ad morrow.

  MORAL

  Qui vidit a thing
  Non ei well-known,
  Est bene for him
  Relinqui id alone.

                          _Anonymous_.




THE LITTLE  PEACH

  Une petite pêche dans un orchard fleurit,
  Attendez à mon narration triste!
  Une petite pêche verdante fleurit.
  Grâce à chaleur de soleil, et moisture de miste.
  Il fleurit, il fleurit,
  Attendez à mon narration triste!

  Signes dures pour les deux,
  Petit Jean et sa soeur Sue,
  Et la pêche d'une verdante hue,
  Qui fleurit, qui fleurit,
  Attendez a mon narration triste!

                          _Anonymous_.




_MONSIEUR McGINTÉ_

  Monsieur McGinté allait en has jusqu'an fond du mer,
      Ils ne l'ont pas encore trouvé
      Je crois qu'il est certainement mouillé.
  Monsieur McGinté, je le repéte, allait jusqu'au fond du mer,
      Habillé dans sa meilleure costume.

                          _Anonymous_.




_YE LAYE OF YE WOODPECKORE_

  _Picus Erythrocephalus_:

  O whither goest thou, pale studént
      Within the wood so fur?
  Art on the chokesome cherry bent?
      Dost seek the chestnut burr?

  _Pale Studént_:

  O it is not for the mellow chestnut
      That I so far am come,
  Nor yet for puckery cherries, but
      For Cypripediúm.

  A blossom hangs the choke-cherry
      And eke the chestnut burr,
  And thou a silly fowl must be,
      Thou red-head wood-peckére.

  _Picas Erythrocephalus_:

  Turn back, turn back, thou pale studént,
      Nor in the forest go;
  There lurks beneath his bosky tent
      The deadly mosquitó,

  And there the wooden-chuck doth tread,
      And from the oak-tree's top
  The red, red squirrels on thy head
      The frequent acorn drop.

  _Pale Studént_:

  The wooden-chuck is next of kin
      Unto the wood-peckére:
  I fear not thine ill-boding din,
      And why should I fear her?

  What though a score of acorns drop
      And squirrels' fur be red!
  'Tis not so ruddy as thy top--
      So scarlet as thy head.

  O rarely blooms the Cypripe-
      diúm upon its stalk;
  And like a torch it shines to me
      Adown the dark wood-walk.

  O joy to pluck it from the ground,
      To view the purple sac,
  To touch the sessile stigma's round--
      And shall I then turn back?

  _Picus Erytbrocephalus_:

  O black and shining is the log
      That feeds the sumptuous weed,
  Nor stone is found nor bedded log
      Where foot may well proceed.

  Midmost it glimmers in the mire
     Like Jack o' Lanthorn's spark,
  Lighting, with phosphorescent fire,
      The green umbrageous dark.

  There while thy thirsty glances drink
      The fair and baneful plant,
  Thy shoon within the ooze shall sink
      And eke thine either pant.

  _Pale Studént_:

  Give o'er, give o'er, thou wood-peckóre;
      The bark upon the tree,
  Thou, at thy will, mayst peck and bore
      But peck and bore not me.

  Full two long hours I've searched about
      And 't would in sooth be rum,
  If I should now go back without
      The Cypripediúm.

  _Picus Erythrocephalus_:

  Farewell! Farewell! But this I tell
      To thee, thou pale studént,
  Ere dews have fell, thou'lt rue it well
      That woodward thou didst went:

  Then whilst thou blows the drooping nose
      And wip'st the pensive eye--
  There where the sad _symplocarpus foetidus_ grows,
      Then think--O think of I!

  Loud flouted there that student wight
      Solche warnynge for to hear;
  "I scorn, old hen, thy threats of might,
      And eke thine ill grammére."

  "Go peck the lice (or green or red)
      That swarm the bass-wood tree,
  But wag no more thine addled head
      Nor clack thy tongue at me."

  The wood-peck turned to whet her beak,
      The student heard her drum,
  As through the wood he went to seek
      The Cypripediúm.

  Alas! and for that pale studént:
      The evening bell did ring,
  And down the walk the Freshmen went
      Unto the prayer-meetíng;

  Upon the fence loud rose the song,
      The weak, weak tea was o'er--
  Ha! who is he that sneaks along
      Into South Middle's door?

  The mud was on his shoon, and O!
      The briar was in his thumb,
  His staff was in his hand but no--
      No Cypripediúm.

                          _Henry A. Beers_.




_COLLUSION BETWEEN A ALEGAITER AND A WATER-SNAIK_

  There is a niland on a river lying,
  Which runs into Gautimaly, a warm country,
  Lying near the Tropicks, covered with sand;
  Hear and their a symptum of a Wilow,
  Hanging of its umberagious limbs & branches
  Over the clear streme meandering far below.
  This was the home of the now silent Alegaiter,
  When not in his other element confine'd:
  Here he wood set upon his eggs asleep
  With 1 ey observant of flis and other passing
  Objects: a while it kept a going on so:
  Fereles of danger was the happy Alegaiter!
  But a las! in a nevil our he was fourced to
  Wake! that dreme of Blis was two sweet for him.
  1 morning the sun arose with unusool splender
  Whitch allso did our Alegaiter, coming from the water,
  His scails a flinging of the rais of the son back,
  To the fountain-head which tha originly sprung from,
  But having not had nothing to eat for some time, he
  Was slepy and gap'd, in a short time, widely.
  Unfoalding soon a welth of perl-white teth,
  The rais of the son soon shet his sinister ey
  Because of their mutool splendor and warmth.
  The evil Our (which I sed) was now come;
  Evidently a good chans for a water-snaik
  Of the large specie, which soon appeared
  Into the horison, near the bank where reposed
  Calmly in slepe the Alegaiter before spoken of.
  About 60 feet was his Length (not the 'gaiter)
  And he was aperiently a well-proportioned snaik.
  When he was all ashore he glared upon
  The iland with approval, but was soon
  "Astonished with the view and lost to wonder" (from Wats)
  (For jest then he began to see the Alegaiter)
  Being a nateral enemy of his'n, he worked hisself
  Into a fury, also a ni position.
  Before the Alegaiter well could ope
  His eye (in other words perceive his danger)
  The Snaik had enveloped his body just 19
  Times with "foalds voluminous and vast" (from Milton)
  And had tore off several scails in the confusion,
  Besides squeazing him awfully into his stomoc.
  Just then, by a fortinate turn in his affairs,
  He ceazed into his mouth the careless tale
  Of the unreflecting water-snaik!  Grown desperate
  He, finding that his tale was fast squesed
  Terrible while they roaled all over the iland.

  It was a well-conduckted Affair; no noise
  Disturbed the harmony of the seen, ecsept
  Onct when a Willow was snaped into by the roaling.
  Eeach of the combatence hadn't a minit for holering.
  So the conflick was naterally tremenjous!
  But soon by grate force the tail was bit complete-
  Ly of; but the eggzeration was too much
  For his delicate Constitootion; he felt a compression
  Onto his chest and generally over his body;
  When he ecspressed his breathing, it was with
  Grate difficulty that he felt inspired again onct more.
  Of course this state must suffer a revolootion.
  So the alegaiter give but one yel, and egspired.
  The water-snaik realed hisself off, & survay'd
  For say 10 minits, the condition of
  His fo: then wondering what made his tail hurt,
  He slowly went off for to cool.

                          _J. W. Morris_.




_ODD  TO A  KROKIS_

  Selestial apoley which Didest inspire.
  the souls of burns and pop with sackred fir.
  Kast thy Mantil over me When i shal sing,
  the praiz Of A sweat flower who grows in spring
  Which has of late kome under the Fokis.
  of My eyes. It is called a krokis.
  Sweat lovly prety littil sweat Thing,
  you bloometh before The lairicks on High sing,
  thy lefs are neithir Red Nor yelly.
  but Just betwixt the two you hardy felly.

  i fear youl yet be Nippit with the frost.
  As Maney a one has known to there kost.
  you should have not kome out in such a hurrey.
  As this is only the Month of Febrywurrey.
  and you may expick yet Much bad wethir.
  when all your blads will krunkil up like Burnt leather.
  alas. alas. theres Men which tries to rime,
  who have like you kome out befor there time.
  The Moril of My peese depend upon it.
  is good so here i End my odd or sonit.

                          _Anonymous_.




_SOME VERSES TO SNAIX_

  Prodiggus reptile! long and skaly kuss!
  You are the dadrattedest biggest thing I ever
  Seed that cud ty itself into a double bo-
  Not, and cum all strate again in a
  Minnit or so, without winkin or seemin
  To experience any particular pane
  In the diafram.

  Stoopenjus inseck! marvelous annimile!
  You are no doubt seven thousand yeres
  Old, and hav a considerable of a
  Family sneekin round thru the tall
  Gras in Africa, a eetin up little greezy
  Niggers, and wishin they was biggir.

  I wonder how big yu was when yu
  Was a inphant about 2 fete long. I
  Expec yu was a purty good size, and
  Lived on phrogs, and lizzerds, and polly-
  Wogs and sutch things.

  You are havin' a nice time now, ennyhow--
  Don't have nothing to do but lay oph.
  And etc kats and rabbits, and stic
  Out yure tung and twist yur tale.
  I wunder if yu ever swollered a man
  Without takin oph his butes. If there was
  Brass buttins on his kote, I spose
  Yu had ter swaller a lot of buttin-
  Wholes, and a shu--hamer to nock
  The soals oph of the boots and drive in
  The tax, so that they wouldn't kut yure
  Inside. I wunder if vittles taste
  Good all the way down. I expec so--
  At leest, fur 6 or 7 fete.

  You are so mighty long, I shud thynk
  If your tale was kold, yure hed
  Woodent no it till the next day,
  But it's hard tu tell: snaix is snaix.

                          _Anonymous_.




_A GREAT MAN_

  Ye muses, pour the pitying tear
      For Pollio snatch'd away:
  For had he liv'd another year!
      --He had not dy'd to-day.

  O, were he born to bless mankind,
      In virtuous times of yore,
  Heroes themselves had fallen behind!
      --Whene'er he went before.

  How sad the groves and plains appear,
      And sympathetic sheep:
  Even pitying hills would drop a tear!
      --If hills could learn to weep.

  His bounty in exalted strain
      Each bard might well display:
  Since none implor'd relief in vain!
      --That went reliev'd away.

  And hark! I hear the tuneful throng;
      His obsequies forbid.
  He still shall live, shall live as long
      --As ever dead man did.

                          _Oliver Goldsmith_.




_AN ELEGY_

  _On the Glory of her Sex, Mrs. Mary Blaize_

  Good people all, with one accord,
      Lament for Madam Blaize,
  Who never wanted a good word--
      From those who spoke her praise.

  The needy seldom pass'd her door,
      And always found her kind;
  She freely lent to all the poor--
      Who left a pledge behind.

  She strove the neighborhood to please
      With manners wondrous winning;
  And never follow'd wicked ways--
      Unless when she was sinning.

  At church, in silks and satins new,
      With hoop of monstrous size,
  She never slumber'd in her pew--
      But when she shut her eyes.

  Her love was sought, I do aver,
      By twenty beaux and more;
  The King himself has follow'd her--
      When she has walk'd before.

  But now, her wealth and finery fled,
      Her hangers-on cut short all;
  The doctors found, when she was dead--
      Her last disorder mortal.

  Let us lament, in sorrow sore,
      For Kent Street well may say,
  That had she lived a twelvemonth more--
      She had not died to-day.

                          _Oliver Goldsmith_.




_PARSON GRAY_

  A quiet home had Parson Gray,
      Secluded in a vale;
  His daughters all were feminine,
      And all his sons were male.

  How faithfully did Parson Gray
      The bread of life dispense--
  Well "posted" in theology,
      And post and rail his fence.

  'Gainst all the vices of the age
      He manfully did battle;
  His chickens were a biped breed,
      And quadruped his cattle.

  No clock more punctually went,
      He ne'er delayed a minute--
  Nor ever empty was his purse,
      When he had money in it.

  His piety was ne'er denied;
      His truths hit saint and sinner;
  At morn he always breakfasted;
      He always dined at dinner.

  He ne'er by any luck was grieved,
      By any care perplexed--
  No filcher he, though when he preached,
      He always "took" a text.

  As faithful characters he drew
      As mortal ever saw;
  But ah! poor parson! when he died,
      His breath he could not draw!

                          _Oliver Goldsmith_.




_AN ELEGY ON THE DEATH OF A MAD DOG_

  Good people all, of every sort,
      Give ear unto my song;
  And if you find it wondrous short,--
      It cannot hold you long.

  In Islington there was a man,
      Of whom the world might say
  That still a godly race he ran,--
      Whene'er he went to pray.

  A kind and gentle heart he had,
      To comfort friends and foes;
  The naked every day he clad,--
      When he put on his clothes.

  And in that town a dog was found,
      As many dogs there be,
  Both mongrel, puppy, whelp, and hound,
      And curs of low degree.

  The dog and man at first were friends;
      But when a pique began,
  The dog, to gain some private ends,
      Went mad, and bit the man.

  Around from all the neighboring streets,
      The wondering neighbors ran,
  And swore the dog had lost his wits
      To bite so good a man.

  The wound it seemed both sore and sad
      To every Christian eye;
  And while they swore the dog was mad
      They swore the man would die.

  But soon a wonder came to light,
      That showed the rogues they lied;
  The man recovered of the bite,
      The dog it was that died.

                          _Oliver Goldsmith_.




_THE WONDERFUL OLD MAN_

  There was an old man
      Who lived on a common
  And, if fame speaks true,
      He was born of a woman.
  Perhaps you will laugh,
      But for truth I've been told
  He once was an infant
      Tho' age made him old.

  Whene'er he was hungry
      He longed for some meat;
  And if he could get it
      'T was said he would eat.
  When thirsty he'd drink
      If you gave him a pot,
  And what he drank mostly
      Ran down his throat.

  He seldom or never
      Could see without light,
  And yet I've been told he
      Could hear in the night.
  He has oft been awake
      In the daytime, 't is said,
  And has fallen asleep
      As he lay in his bed.

  'T is reported his tongue
      Always moved when he talk'd,
  And he stirred both his arms
      And his legs when he walk'd;
  And his gait was so odd
      Had you seen him you 'd burst,
  For one leg or t' other
      Would always be first.

  His face was the drollest
      That ever was seen,
  For if 't was not washed
      It seldom was clean;
  His teeth he expos'd when
      He happened to grin,
  And his mouth stood across
      'Twixt his nose and his chin.

  When this whimsical chap
      Had a river to pass,
  If he couldn't get over
      He stayed where he was.
  'T is said he ne'er ventured
      To quit the dry ground,
  Yet so great was his luck
      He never was drowned.

  At last he fell sick,
      As old chronicles tell,
  And then, as folks say,
      He was not very well.
  But what was as strange
      In so weak a condition,
  As he could not give fees
      He could get no physician.

  What wonder he died!
      Yet 't is said that his death
  Was occasioned at last
      By the loss of his breath.
  But peace to his bones
      Which in ashes now moulder.
  Had he lived a day longer
      He'd have been a day older.

                          _Anonymous_




_A CHRONICLE_

  Once--but no matter when--
      There lived--no matter where--
  A man, whose name--but then
      I need not that declare.

  He--well, he had been born,
      And so he was alive;
  His age--I details scorn--
      Was somethingty and five.

  He lived--how many years
      I truly can't decide;
  But this one fact appears
      He lived--until he died.

  "He died," I have averred,
      But cannot prove 't was so,
  But that he was interred,
      At any rate, I know.

  I fancy he'd a son,
      I hear he had a wife:
  Perhaps he'd more than one,
      I know not, on my life!

  But whether he was rich,
      Or whether he was poor,
  Or neither--both--or which,
      I cannot say, I'm sure.

  I can't recall his name,
      Or what he used to do:
  But then--well, such is fame!
      'T will so serve me and you.

  And that is why I thus,
      About this unknown man
  Would fain create a fuss,
      To rescue, if I can.

  From dark oblivion's blow,
      Some record of his lot:
  But, ah! I do not know
      Who--where--when--why--or what.

  MORAL

  In this brief pedigree
      A moral we should find--
  But what it ought to be
      Has quite escaped my mind!

                          _Anonymous_.




_ON THE OXFORD CARRIER_

  Here lieth one, who did most truly prove
  That he could never die while he could move;
  So hung his destiny never to rot
  While he might still jog on and keep his trot;
  Made of sphere metal, never to decay
  Until his revolution was at stay.
  Time numbers motion, yet (without a crime
  'Gainst old truth) motion number'd out his time,
  And like an engine moved with wheel and weight,
  His principles being ceased, he ended straight.
  Rest, that gives all men life, gave him his death,
  And too much breathing put him out of breath;
  Nor were it contradiction to affirm,
  Too long vacation hasten'd on his term.
  Merely to drive the time away he sicken'd,
  Fainted, and died, nor would with ale be quicken'd;
  "Nay," quoth he, on his swooning bed outstretch'd,
  "If I mayn't carry, sure I'll ne'er be fetch'd,
  But vow, though the cross doctors all stood hearers,
  For one carrier put down to make six bearers."
  Ease was his chief disease; and to judge right,
  He died for heaviness that his cart went light:
  His leisure told him that his time was come,
  And lack of load made his life burdensome.
  That even to his last breath (there be that say't),
  As he were press'd to death, he cried, "More weight;"
  But, had his doings lasted as they were,
  He had been an immortal carrier.
  Obedient to the moon he spent his date
  In course reciprocal, and had his fate
  Link'd to the mutual flowing of the seas,
  Yet (strange to think) his wane was his increase:
  His letters are deliver'd all, and gone,
  Only remains the superscription.

                          _John Milton_.




_NEPHELIDIA_

  From the depth of the dreamy decline of the dawn
      through a notable nimbus of nebulous noonshine,
  Pallid and pink as the palm of the flag-flower
      that flickers with fear of the flies as they float,
  Are they looks of our lovers that lustrously lean from a marvel
      of mystic miraculous moonshine,
  These that we feel in the blood of our blushes that thicken and
      threaten with sobs from the throat?
  Thicken and thrill as a theatre thronged at appeal of an actor's
      appalled agitation,
  Fainter with fear of the fires of the future than pale with the
      promise of pride in the past;
  Flushed with the  famishing fulness of fever that reddens with
      radiance of rathe recreation,
  Gaunt as the ghastliest of glimpses that gleam through the gloom
      of the gloaming when ghosts go aghast?
  Nay, for the nick of the tick of the time is a tremulous touch
      on the temples of terror,
  Strained as the sinews yet strenuous with strife of the dead who
      is dumb as the dust-heaps of death:
  Surely no soul is it, sweet as the spasm of erotic emotional
      exquisite error,
  Bathed in the balms of beatified bliss, beatific itself by
      beatitude's breath.
  Surely no spirit or sense of a soul that was soft to the spirit
      and soul of our senses
  Sweetens the stress of suspiring suspicion that sobs in the
      semblance and sound of a sigh;
  Only this oracle opens Olympian, in mystical moods and
     triangular tenses--
  Life is the lust of a lamp for the light that is dark till the
      dawn of the day when we die.
  Mild is the mirk and monotonous music of memory melodiously mute
      as it may be,
  While the hope in the heart of a hero is bruised by the breach of
      men's rapiers resigned to the rod;
  Made meek as a mother whose bosom--beats bound with the bliss--
      bringing bulk of a balm--breathing baby,
  As they grope through the grave-yards of creeds, under skies
      growing green'at a groan for the grimness of God.
  Blank is the book of his bounty beholden of old and its binding
      is blacker than bluer:
  Out of blue into black is the scheme of the skies, and their
      dews are the wine of the bloodshed of things;
  Till the darkling desire of delight shall be free as a fawn that
      is freed from the fangs that pursue her,
  Till the heart-beats of hell shall be hushed by a hymn from the
      hunt that has harried the kernel of kings.

                          _A. C. Swinburne,
                             in "The Heptalogia_."



_MARTIN LUTHER AT POTSDAM_

  What lightning shall light it? What thunder shall tell it?
  In the height of the height, in the depth of the deep?

  Shall the sea--storm  declare it, or paint it, or smell it?
      Shall the price of a slave be its treasure to keep?
  When the night has grown near with the gems on her bosom,
      When the white of mine eyes is the whiteness of snow,
  When the cabman--in liquor--drives a blue roan, a kicker,
      Into the land of the dear long ago.

  Ah!--Ah, again!--You will come to me, fall on me--
      You are _so_ heavy, and I am _so_ flat.
  And I? I shall not be at home when you call on me,
      But stray down the wind like a gentleman's hat:
  I shall list to the stars when the music is purple,
      Be drawn through a pipe, and exhaled into rings;
  Turn to sparks, and then straightway get stuck in the gateway
      That stands  between speech and unspeakable things.

  As I mentioned before, by what light is it lighted?
      Oh! Is it fourpence, or piebald, or gray?
  Is it a mayor that a mother has knighted,
      Or is it a horse of the sun and the day?
  Is it a pony? If so, who will change it?
      O golfer, be quiet, and mark where it scuds,
  And think of its paces--of owners and races--
      Relinquish the links for the study of studs.

  Not understood? Take me hence! Take me yonder!
      Take me away to the land of my rest--
  There where the Ganges and other gees wander,
      And uncles and antelopes act for the best,
  And all things are mixed and run into each other
      In a violet twilight of virtues and sins,
  With the church-spires below you and no one to show you
      Where the curate leaves off and the pew-rent begins!

  In the black night through the rank grass the snakes peer--
      The cobs and the cobras are partial to grass--
  And a boy wanders out with a knowledge of Shakespeare
      That's not often found in a boy of his class,
  And a girl wanders out without any knowledge,
      And a bird wanders out, and a cow wanders out,
  Likewise one wether, and they wander together--
      There's a good deal of wandering lying about.

  But it's all for the best; I've been told by my friends, Sir,
      That in verses I'd written the meaning was slight;
  I've tried with no meaning--to make 'em amends, Sir--
      And find that this kind's still more easy to write.
  The title has nothing to do with the verses,
      But think of the millions--the laborers who
  In busy employment find deepest enjoyment,
      And yet, like my title, have nothing to do!

                          _Barry Pain_.




_COMPANIONS_

  I know not of what we ponder'd
      Or made pretence to talk,
  As, her hand within mine, we wander'd
      Tow'rd the pool by the limetree walk,
  While the dew fell in showers from the passion flowers
      And the blush-rose bent on her stalk.

  I cannot recall her figure:
      Was it regal as Juno's own?
  Or only a trifle bigger
      Than the elves who surround the throne
  Of the Faëry Queen, and are seen, I ween,
      By mortals in dreams alone?

  What her eyes were like, I know not:
      Perhaps they were blurred with tears;
  And perhaps in your skies there glow not
      (On the contrary) clearer spheres.
  No as to her eyes I am just as wise
      As you or the cat, my dears.

  Her teeth, I presume, were "pearly":
      But which was she, brunette or blonde?
  Her hair, was it quaintly curly,
      Or as straight as a beadle's wand?
  That I failed to remark;--it was rather dark
      And shadowy round the pond.

  Then the hand that reposed so snugly
      In mine--was it plump or spare?
  Was the countenance fair or ugly?
      Nay, children, you have me there!
  My eyes were p'raps blurr'd; and besides, I'd heard
      That it's horribly rude to stare.

  And I--was I brusque and surly?
      Or oppressively bland and fond?
  Was I partial to rising early?
      Or why did we twain abscond,
  All breakfastless too, from the public view
      To prowl by a misty pond?

  What passed, what was felt or spoken--
      Whether anything passed at all--
  And whether the heart was broken
      That beat under that sheltering shawl--
  (If shawl she had on, which I doubt)--has gone.
      Yes, gone from me past recall.

  Was I haply the lady's suitor?
      Or her uncle? I can't make out--
  Ask your governess, dears, or tutor.
      For myself, I'm in hopeless doubt
  As to why we were there, and who on earth we were,
      And what this is all about.

                          _C. S. Calverley_.




_THE COCK AND THE BULL_

  You see this pebble-stone? It's a thing I bought
  Of a bit of a chit of a boy i' the mid o' the day--
  I like to dock the smaller parts-o-speech,
  As we curtail the already cur-tailed cur
  (You catch the paronomasia, play 'po' words?)
  Did, rather, i' the pre-Landseerian days.
  Well, to my muttons. I purchased the concern,
  And clapt it i' my poke, having given for same
  By way o' chop, swop, barter or exchange--
  "Chop" was my snickering dandiprat's own term--
  One  shilling  and  fourpence, current coin o' the realm.
  O-n-e one and f-o-u-r four
  Pence, one and fourpence--you are with me, sir?--
  What hour it skills not: ten or eleven o' the clock,
  One day (and what a roaring day it was
  Go shop or sight-see--bar a spit o' rain!)
  In February, eighteen sixty nine,
  Alexandrina Victoria, Fidei,
  Hm--hm--how runs the jargon? being on the throne.

  Such, sir, are all the facts, succinctly put,
  The basis or substratum--what you will--
  Of the impending eighty thousand lines.
  "Not much in 'em either," quoth perhaps simple Hodge.
  But there's a superstructure. Wait a bit.

  Mark first the rationale of the thing:
  Hear logic rivel and levigate the deed.
  That shilling--and for matter o' that, the pence--
  I had o' course upo' me--wi' me say--
  (_Mecum's_ the Latin, make a note o' that)
  When I popp'd pen i' stand, scratched ear, wiped snout,
  (Let everybody wipe his own himself)
  Sniff'd--tch!--at snuffbox; tumbled up, he-heed,
  Haw-haw'd (not he-haw'd, that's another guess thing):
  Then fumbled at, and stumbled out of, door,
  I shoved the timber ope wi' my omoplat;
  And _in vestibulo_, i' the lobby to-wit,
  (Iacobi Facciolati's rendering, sir,)
  Donned galligaskins, antigropeloes,
  And so forth; and, complete with hat and gloves,
  One on and one a-dangle i' my hand,
  And ombrifuge (Lord love you!) cas o' rain,
  I flopped forth, 'sbuddikins! on my own ten toes,
  (I do assure you there be ten of them)
  And went clump-clumping up hill and down dale
  To find myself o' the sudden i' front o' the boy.
  Put case I hadn't 'em on me, could I ha' bought
  This sort-o'-kind-o'-what-you-might-call-toy,
  This pebble-thing, o' the boy-thing? Q. E. D.
  That's proven without aid for mumping Pope,
  Sleek porporate or bloated cardinal.
  (Isn't it, old Fatchops? You're in Euclid now.)
  So, having the shilling--having i' fact a lot--
  And pence and halfpence, ever so many o' them,
  I purchased, as I think I said before,
  The pebble (_lapis, lapidis, di, dem, de_--
  What nouns 'crease short i' the genitive,  Fatchops, eh?)
  O the boy, a bare-legg'd beggarly son of a gun,
  For one-and-fourpence. Here we are again.
  Now Law steps in, biwigged, voluminous-jaw'd;
  Investigates and re-investigates.
  Was the transaction illegal? Law shakes head.
  Perpend, sir, all the bearings of the case.

  At first the coin was mine, the chattel his.
  But now (by virtue of the said exchange
  And barter) _vice versa_ all the coin,
  _Rer juris operationem_, vests
  I' the boy and his assigns till ding o' doom;
  _In saecula saeculo-o-o-orum_;
  (I think I hear the Abate mouth out that.)
  To have and hold the same to him and them ...
  Confer some idiot on Conveyancing.
  Whereas the pebble and every part thereof,
  And all that appertaineth thereunto,
  _Quodcunque pertinet ad em rem_,
  (I fancy, sir, my Latin's rather pat)
  Or shall, will, may, might, can, could, would, or should,
  _Subaudi caetera_--clap we to the close--
  For what's the good of law in such a case o' the kind
  Is mine to all intents and purposes.
  This settled, I resume the thread o' the tale.

  Now for a touch o' the vendor's quality.
  He says a gen'lman bought a pebble of him,
  (This pebble i' sooth, sir, which I hold i' my hand)--
  And paid for 't, _like_ a gen'lman, on the nail.
  "Did I o'ercharge him a ha'penny? Devil a bit.
  Fiddlepin's end! Get out, you blazing ass!
  Gabble o' the goose. Don't bugaboo-baby _me_!
  Go double or quits? Yah! tittup! what's the odds?"
  --There's the transaction viewed in the vendor's light.

  Next ask that dumpled hag, stood snuffling by,
  With her three frowsy blowsy brats o' babes,
  The scum o' the Kennel, cream o' the filth-heap--Faugh!
  Aie, aie, aie, aie! [Greek: otototototoi],
  ('Stead which we blurt out, Hoighty toighty now)--
  And the baker and candlestick maker, and Jack and Gill,
  Blear'd Goody this and queasy Gaffer that,
  Ask the Schoolmaster, Take Schoolmaster first.
  He saw a gentleman purchase of a lad
  A stone, and pay for it _rite_ on the square,
  And carry it off _per saltum_, jauntily
  _Propria quae maribus_, gentleman's property now
  (Agreeable to the law explained above).
  _In proprium usum_, for his private ends,
  The boy he chucked a brown i' the air, and bit
  I' the face the shilling; heaved a thumping stone
  At a lean hen that ran cluck-clucking by,
  (And hit her, dead as nail i' post o' door,)
  Then _abiit_--What's the Ciceronian phrase?
  _Excessit, evasit, erupit_--off slogs boy;
  Off like bird, _avi similis_--(you observed
  The dative? Pretty i' the Mantuan!)--_Anglice_
  Off in three flea skips. _Hactenus_, so far,
  So good, _tam bene. Bene, satis, male_,--
  Where was I with my trope 'bout one in a quag?
  I did once hitch the Syntax into verse
  _Verbum personale_, a verb personal,
  _Concordat_--"ay", agrees old Fatchops--_cum
  Nominativo_, with its nominative,
  _Genere_, i' point of gender, _numero_,
  O' number, _et persona_, and person. _Ut_,
  Instance: _Sol ruit_, down flops sun, _et_ and,
  _Montes umbrantur_, out flounce mountains. Pah!
  Excuse me, sir, I think I'm going mad.

  You see the trick on't, though, and can yourself
  Continue the discourse _ad libitum_.
  It takes up about eighty thousand lines,
  A thing imagination boggles at;
  And might, odds-bobs, sir! in judicious hands
  Extend from here to Mesopotamy.

                          _C.S. Calverley_.




LOVERS AND A  REFLECTION

  In moss-prankt dells which the sunbeams flatter
      (And heaven it knoweth what that may mean;
  Meaning, however, is no great matter)
      Where woods are a-tremble with words a-tween;

  Thro' God's own heather we wonned together,
      I and my Willie (O love my love):
  I need hardly remark it was glorious weather,
      And flitter-bats wavered alow, above:

  Boats were curtseying, rising, bowing,
      (Boats in that climate are so polite,)
  And sands were a ribbon of green endowing,
      And O the sun-dazzle on bark and bight!

  Thro' the rare red heather we danced together
      (O love my Willie,) and smelt for flowers:
  I must mention again it was glorious weather,
      Rhymes are so scarce in this world of ours:

  By rises that flushed with their purple favors,
      Thro' becks that brattled o'er grasses sheen,
  We walked or waded, we two young shavers,
      Thanking our stars we were both so green.

  We journeyed in parallels, I and Willie,
      In fortunate parallels! Butterflies,
  Hid in weltering shadows of daffodilly
      Or marjoram, kept making peacock eyes:

  Song-birds darted about, some inky
      As coal, some snowy (I ween) as curds;
  Or rosy as pinks, or as roses pinky--
      They reek of no eerie To-come, those birds!

  But they skim over bents which the mill-stream washes,
      Or hang in the lift 'neath a white cloud's hem;
  They need no parasols, no goloshes;
      And good Mrs. Trimmer she feedeth them.

  Then we thrid God's cowslips (as erst his heather),
      That endowed the wan grass with their golden blooms;
  And snapt--(it was perfectly charming weather)--
      Our fingers at Fate and her goddess-glooms:

  And Willie 'gan sing--(Oh, his notes were fluty;
      Wafts fluttered them out to the white-winged sea)--
  Something made up of rhymes that have done much duty,
      Rhymes (better to put it) of "ancientry":

  Bowers of flowers encountered showers
      In William's carol--(O love my Willie!)
  Then he bade sorrow borrow from blithe tomorrow
      I quite forget what--say a daffodilly.

  A nest in a hollow, "with buds to follow,"
      I think occurred next in his nimble strain;
  And clay that was "kneaden" of course in Eden--
      A rhyme most novel I do maintain:

  Mists, bones, the singer himself, love-stories,
      And all least furlable things got furled;
  Not with any design to conceal their glories,
      But simply and solely to rhyme with world.

  O if billows and pillows and hours and flowers,
      And all the brave rhymes of an elder day,
  Could be furled together, this genial weather,
      And carted or carried on wafts away,

  Nor ever again trotted out--ah me!
  How much fewer volumes of verse there'd be.

                          _C.S. Calverley_




AN IMITATION OF WORDSWORTH

  There is a river clear and fair,
  'Tis neither broad nor narrow;
        It winds a little here and there--
  It winds about like any hare;
  And then it takes as straight a course
  As on the turnpike road a horse,
      Or through the air an arrow.

  The trees that grow upon the shore,
  Have grown a hundred years or more;
        So long there is no knowing.
  Old Daniel Dobson does not know
  When first these trees began to grow;
  But still they grew, and grew, and grew,
  As if they'd nothing else to do,
      But ever to be growing.

  The impulses of air and sky
  Have rear'd their stately heads so high,
      And clothed their boughs with green;
  Their leaves the dews of evening quaff,--
      And when the wind blows loud and keen,
  I've seen the jolly timbers laugh,
      And shake their sides with merry glee--
      Wagging their heads in mockery.

      Fix'd are their feet in solid earth,
      Where winds can never blow;
  But visitings of deeper birth
      Have reach'd their roots below.
  For they have gain'd the river's brink,
  And of the living waters drink.

  There's little Will, a five years child--
      He is my youngest boy:
  To look on eyes so fair and wild,
      It is a very joy:--
  He hath conversed with sun and shower,
  And dwelt with every idle flower,
      As fresh and gay as them.
  He loiters with the briar rose,--
  The blue-belles are his play-fellows,
      That dance upon their slender stem.

  And I have said, my little Will,
  Why should not he continue still
      A thing of Nature's rearing?
  A thing beyond the world's control--
  A living vegetable soul,--
      No human sorrow fearing.

  It were a blessed sight to see
  That child become a Willow-tree,
      His brother trees among.
  He'd be four times as tall as me,
      And live three times as long.

                          _Catharine M. Fanshawe_.




THE FAMOUS BALLAD OF THE JUBILEE CUP

  You may lift me up in your arms, lad, and turn my face to the sun,
  For a last look back at the dear old track where the Jubilee cup
       was won;
  And draw your chair to my side, lad--no, thank ye, I feel no pain--
  For I'm going out with the tide, lad; but I'll tell you the tale
       again.

  I'm  seventy-nine or nearly, and my head it has long turned gray,
  But it all comes back as clearly as though it was yesterday--
  The dust, and the bookies shouting around the clerk of the scales,
  And the clerk of the course, and the nobs in force, and 'Is
       'Ighness the Pr**ce of W*les.

  'Twas a nine-hole thresh to wind'ard (but none of us cared for that),
  With a straight run home to the service tee, and a finish along
       the flat,
  "Stiff?" ah, well you may say it! Spot barred, and at five stone
       ten!
  But at two and a bisque I'd ha' run the risk; for I was a
       greenhorn then.

  So we stripped to the B. Race signal, the old red swallowtail--
  There was young Ben Bolt and the Portland Colt, and Aston Villa,
       and Yale;
  And W. G., and Steinitz, Leander and The Saint,
  And the G*rm*n Emp*r*r's Meteor, a-looking as fresh as paint;

  John Roberts (scratch), and Safety Match, The Lascar, and Lorna
       Doone,
  Oom Paul (a bye), and Romany Rye, and me upon Wooden Spoon;
  And some of us cut for partners, and some of us strung for baulk,
  And some of us tossed for stations--But there, what use to talk?

  Three-quarter-back on the Kingsclere crack was station enough for
       me,
  With a fresh jackyarder blowing and the Vicarage goal a-lee!
  And I leaned and patted her centre-bit and eased the quid in her
       cheek,
  With a "Soh my lass!" and a "Woa you brute!"--for she could do all
       but speak.

  She was geared a thought too high perhaps; she was trained a
       trifle fine;
  But she had the grand reach forward! I never saw such a line!
  Smooth-bored, clean run, from her fiddle head with its dainty ear
       half-cock,
  Hard-bit, _pur sang_, from her overhang to the heel of her off
       hind sock.

  Sir Robert he walked beside me as I worked her down to the mark;
  "There's money on this, my lad," said he, "and most of 'em's
       running dark;
  But ease the sheet if you're bunkered, and pack the scrummages
       tight,
  And use your slide at the distance, and we'll drink to your health
       to-night!"

  But I bent and tightened my stretcher. Said I to myself, said I--
  "John Jones, this here is the  Jubilee Cup, and you have to do or
       die."
  And the words weren't hardly spoken when the umpire shouted
       "Play!"
  And we all kicked off from the Gasworks End with a "Yoicks!" and a
       "Gone Away!"

  And at first I thought of nothing, as the clay flew by in lumps,
  But stuck to the old Ruy Lopez, and wondered who'd call for trumps,
  And luffed her close to the cushion, and watched each one as it
       broke,
  And in triple file up the Rowley Mile we went like a trail of smoke.

  The Lascar made the running but he didn't amount to much,
  For old Oom Paul was quick on the ball, and headed it back to touch;
  And the whole first flight led off with the right as The Saint
       took up the pace,
  And drove it clean to the putting green and trumped it there with
       an ace.

  John Roberts had given a miss in baulk, but Villa cleared with a
       punt;
  And keeping her service hard and low the Meteor forged to the front;
  With Romany Rye to windward at dormy and two to play,
  And Yale close up--but a Jubilee Cup isn't run for every day.

  We laid our course for the Warner--I tell you the pace was hot!
  And again off Tattenham Corner a blanket covered the lot.
  Check side! Check side! now steer her wide! and barely an inch of
       room,
  With The Lascar's tail over our lee rail and brushing Leander's
       boom.

  We were running as strong as ever--eight knots--but it couldn't
       last;
  For the spray and the bails were flying, the whole field tailing
       fast;
  And the Portland Colt had shot his bolt, and Yale was bumped at
       the Doves,
  And The Lascar resigned to Steinitz, stalemated in fifteen moves.

  It was bellows to mend with Roberts--starred three for a penalty
       kick:
  But he chalked his cue and gave 'em the butt, and Oom Paul marked
       the trick--
  "Offside--No Ball--and at fourteen all! Mark Cock! and two for his
       nob!"
  When W.G. ran clean through his lee and beat him twice with a lob.

  He yorked him twice on a crumbling pitch and wiped his eye with a
       brace,
  But his guy-rope split with the strain of it and he dropped back
       out of the race;
  And I drew a bead on the Meteor's lead, and challenging none too
       soon,
  Bent over and patted her garboard strake, and called upon Wooden
       Spoon.

  She was all of a shiver forward, the spoondrift thick on her flanks,
  But I'd brought her an easy gambit, and nursed her over the banks;
  She answered her helm--the darling! and woke up now with a rush,
  While the Meteor's jock, he sat like a rock--he knew we rode for
       his brush!

  There was no one else left in it. The Saint was using his whip,
  And Safety Match, with a lofting catch, was pocketed deep at slip;
  And young Ben Bolt with his niblick took miss at Leander's lunge,
  But topped the net with the ricochet, and Steinitz threw up the
       sponge.

  But none of the lot could stop the rot--nay, don't ask _me_ to stop!
  The villa had called for lemons, Oom Paul had taken his drop,
  And both were kicking the referee. Poor fellow! he done his best;
  But, being in doubt, he'd ruled them out--which he always did when
       pressed.

  So, inch by inch, I tightened the winch, and chucked the sandbags
       out--
  I heard the nursery cannons pop, I heard the bookies shout:
  "The Meteor wins!" "No, Wooden Spoon!" "Check!" "Vantage!"
       "Leg Before!"
  "Last Lap!" "Pass Nap!" At his saddle-flap I put up the helm and
       wore.

  You may overlap at the saddle-flap, and yet be loo'd on the tape:
  And it all depends upon changing ends, how a seven-year-old will
       shape;
  It was tack and tack to the Lepe and back--a fair ding-dong to the
       Ridge,
  And he led by his forward canvas yet as we shot 'neath Hammersmith
       Bridge.

  He led by his forward canvas--he led from his strongest suit--
  But along we went on a roaring scent, and at Fawley I gained a foot.
  He fisted off with his jigger, and gave me his wash--too late!
  Deuce--Vantage--Check! By neck and neck we rounded into the
       straight.

  I could hear the "Conquering 'Ero" a-crashing on Godfrey's band,
  And my hopes fell sudden to zero, just there, with the race in
       hand--
  In sight of the Turf's Blue Ribbon, in sight of the umpire's tape,
  As I felt the tack of her spinnaker c-rack! as I heard the steam
       escape!

  Had I lost at that awful juncture my presence of mind? ... but no!
  I leaned and felt for the puncture, and plugged it there with my
       toe....
  Hand over hand by the Members' Stand I lifted and eased her up,
  Shot--clean and fair--to the crossbar there, and landed the
       Jubilee Cup!

  "The odd by a head, and leg before," so the Judge he gave the word:
  And the  umpire shouted "Over!"  but I neither spoke nor stirred.
  They crowded round: for there on the ground I lay in a dead-cold
       swoon,
  Pitched neck and crop on the turf atop of my beautiful Wooden Spoon.

  Her dewlap tire was punctured, her bearings all red hot;
  She'd a lolling  tongue, and her bowsprit sprung, and her running
       gear in a knot;
  And amid the sobs of her backers, Sir Robert loosened her girth
  And led her away to the knacker's. She had raced her last on earth!

  But I mind me well of the tear that fell from the eye of our noble
       Pr*nce,
  And the things he said as he tucked me in bed--and I 've lain
       there ever since;
  Tho' it all gets mixed up queerly that happened before my spill,--
  But I draw my thousand yearly: it 'll pay for the doctor's bill.

  I'm going out with the tide, lad--you 'll dig me a numble grave,
  And whiles you will bring your bride, lad, and your sons, if sons
       you have,
  And there when  the  dews  are  weeping, and the echoes murmur
       "Peace!"
  And the salt, salt tide comes creeping and covers the
       popping-crease;

  In the hour when the ducks deposit their eggs with a boasted force,
  They'll look and whisper "How was it?" and you'll take them over
       the course,
  And your voice will break as you try to speak of the glorious
       first of June,
  When the Jubilee Cup, with John Jones up, was won upon Wooden Spoon.

                          _Arthur T. Quiller-Couch_.




A SONG OF IMPOSSIBILITIES

  Lady, I loved you all last year,
      How honestly and well--
  Alas! would weary you to hear,
      And torture me to tell;
  I raved beneath the midnight sky,
      I sang beneath the limes--
  Orlando in my lunacy,
      And Petrarch in my rhymes.
  But all is over! When the sun
      Dries up the boundless main,
  When black is white, false-hearted one,
      I may be yours again!

  When passion's early hopes and fears
      Are not derided things;
  When truth is found in falling tears,
      Or faith in golden rings;
  When the dark Fates that rule our way
      Instruct me where they hide
  One woman that would ne'er betray,
      One friend that never lied;
  When summer shines without a cloud,
      And bliss without a pain;
  When worth is noticed in a crowd,
      I may be yours again!

  When science pours the light of day
      Upon the lords of lands;
  When Huskisson is heard to say
      That Lethbridge understands;
  When wrinkles work their way in youth,
      Or Eldon's in a hurry;
  When lawyers represent the truth,
      Or Mr. Sumner Surrey;
  When aldermen taste eloquence
      Or bricklayers champagne;
  When common law is common sense,
      I may be yours again!

  When learned judges play the beau,
      Or learned pigs the tabor;
  When traveller Bankes beats Cicero,
      Or Mr. Bishop Weber;
  When sinking funds discharge a debt,
      Or female hands a bomb;
  When bankrupts study the _Gazette_,
      Or colleges _Tom Thumb_;
  When little fishes learn to speak,
      Or poets not to feign;
  When Dr. Geldart construes Greek,
      I may be yours again!

  When Pole and Thornton honor cheques,
      Or Mr. Const a rogue;
  When Jericho's in Middlesex,
      Or minuets in vogue;
  When Highgate goes to Devonport,
      Or fashion to Guildhall;
  When argument is heard at Court,
      Or Mr. Wynn at all;
  When Sydney Smith forgets to jest,
      Or farmers to complain;
  When kings that are are not the best,
      I may be yours again!

  When peers from telling money shrink,
      Or monks from telling lies;
  When hydrogen begins to sink,
      Or Grecian scrip to rise;
  When German poets cease to dream,
      Americans to guess;
  When Freedom sheds her holy beam
      On Negroes, and the Press;
  When there is any fear of Rome,
      Or any hope of Spain;
  When Ireland is a happy home,
      I may be yours again!

  When you can cancel what has been,
      Or alter what must be,
  Or bring once more that vanished scene,
      Those withered joys to me;
  When you can tune the broken lute,
      Or deck the blighted wreath,
  Or rear the garden's richest fruit,
      Upon a blasted heath;
  When you can lure the wolf at bay
      Back to his shattered chain,
  To-day may then be yesterday--
      I may be yours again!

                          _W.M. Praed_.




TRUST IN WOMEN

  When these things following be done to our intent,
  Then put women in trust and confident.

  When nettles in winter bring forth roses red,
      And all manner of thorn trees bear figs naturally,
  And geese bear pearls in every mead,
      And laurel bear cherries abundantly,
      And oaks bear dates very plenteously,
  And kisks give of honey superfluence,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

  When box bear paper in every land and town,
      And thistles bear berries in every place,
  And pikes have naturally feathers in their crown,
      And bulls of the sea sing a good bass,
      And men be the ships fishes trace,
  And in women be found no insipience,
  Then put them in trust and confidence.

  When whitings do walk forests to chase harts,
      And herrings their horns in forests boldly blow,
  And marmsets mourn in moors and lakes,
      And gurnards shoot rooks out of a crossbow,
      And goslings hunt the wolf to overthrow,
  And sprats bear spears in armes of defence,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

  When swine be cunning in all points of music,
      And asses be doctors of every science,
  And cats do heal men by practising of physic,
      And buzzards to scripture give any credence,
      And merchants buy with horn, instead of groats and pence,
  And pyes be made poets for their eloquence,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

  When sparrows build churches on a height,
      And wrens carry sacks unto the mill,
  And curlews carry timber houses to dight,
      And fomalls bear butter to market to sell,
      And woodcocks bear woodknives cranes to kill,
  And greenfinches to goslings do obedience,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

  When crows take salmon in woods and parks,
      And be take with swifts and snails,
  And camels in the air take swallows and larks,
      And mice move mountains by wagging of their tails,
      And shipmen take a ride instead of sails,
  And when wives to their husbands do no offence,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

  When antelopes surmount eagles in flight,
      And swans be swifter than hawks of the tower,
  And wrens set gos-hawks by force and might,
      And muskets make verjuice of crabbes sour,
      And ships sail on dry land, silt give flower,
  And apes in Westminster give judgment and sentence,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

                          _Anonymous_.




HERE IS THE TALE

  AFTER RUDYARD KIPLING

  _Here is the tale--and you must make the most of it!
      Here is the rhyme--ah, listen and attend!
  Backwards--forwards--read it all and boast of it
      If you are anything the wiser at the end_!


  Now Jack looked up--it was time to sup, and the bucket was yet to
       fill,
  And Jack looked round for a space and frowned, then beckoned his
       sister Jill,
  And twice he pulled his sister's hair, and thrice he smote her side;
  "Ha' done, ha' done with your impudent fun--ha' done with your
       games!" she cried;
  "You have made mud-pies of a marvellous size--finger and face are
       black,
  You have trodden the Way of the Mire and Clay--now up and wash you,
       Jack!
  Or else, or ever we reach our home, there waiteth an angry dame--
  Well you know the weight of her blow--the supperless open shame!
  Wash, if you will, on yonder hill--wash, if you will, at the spring,--
  Or keep your dirt, to your certain hurt, and an imminent walloping!"

  "You must wash--you must scrub--you must scrape!" growled Jack,
       "you must traffic with cans and pails,
  Nor keep the spoil of the good brown soil in the rim of your
       finger-nails!
  The morning path you must tread to your bath--you must wash ere
       the night descends,
  And all for the cause of conventional laws and the soapmakers'
       dividends!
  But if 'tis sooth that our meal in truth depends on our washing,
       Jill,
  By the sacred right of our appetite--haste--haste to the top of
       the hill!"

  They have trodden the Way of the Mire and Clay, they have toiled
       and travelled far,
  They have climbed to the brow of the hill-top now, where the
       bubbling fountains are,
  They have taken the bucket and filled it up--yea, filled it up to
       the brim;
  But Jack he sneered at his sister Jill, and Jill she jeered at him:
  "What, blown already!" Jack cried out (and his was a biting mirth!)
  "You boast indeed of your wonderful speed--but what is the
       boasting worth?
  Now, if you can run as the antelope runs, and if you can turn like
       a hare,
  Come, race me, Jill, to the foot of the hill--and prove your
       boasting fair!"

  "Race? What is a race" (and a mocking face had Jill as she spake
       the word)
  "Unless for a prize the runner tries? The truth indeed ye heard,
  For I can run as the antelope runs, and I can turn like a hare:--
  The first one down wins half-a-crown--and I will race you there!"
  "Yea, if for the lesson that you will learn (the lesson of humbled
       pride)
  The price you fix at two-and-six, it shall not be denied;
  Come, take your stand at my right hand, for here is the mark we toe:
  Now, are you ready, and are you steady? Gird up your petticoats! Go!"

  And Jill she ran like a winging bolt, a bolt from the bow released,
  But Jack like a stream of the lightning gleam, with its pathway
       duly greased;
  He ran down hill in front of Jill like a summer-lightning flash--
  Till he suddenly tripped on a stone, or slipped, and fell to the
       earth with a crash.
  Then straight did rise on his wondering eyes the constellations
       fair,
  Arcturus and the Pleiades, the Greater and Lesser Bear,
  The swirling rain of a comet's train he saw, as he swiftly fell--
  And Jill came tumbling after him with a loud triumphant yell:
  "You have won, you have won, the race is done! And as for the
       wager laid--
  You have fallen down with a broken crown--the half-crown debt is
       paid!"

  They have taken Jack to the room at the back where the family
       medicines are,
  And he lies in bed with a broken head in a halo of vinegar;
  While, in that Jill had laughed her fill as her brother fell to
       earth,
  She had felt the sting of a walloping--she hath paid the price of
       her mirth!

  _Here is the tale--and now you have the whole of it,
  Here is the story--well and wisely planned,
  Beauty--Duty--these make up the soul of it--
  But, ah, my little readers, will you mark and understand_?

                          _Anthony C. Deane_.




THE AULD WIFE

  The auld wife sat at her ivied door,
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  A thing she had frequently done before;
      And her spectacles lay on her aproned knees.

  The piper he piped on the hill-top high,
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  Till the cow said "I die" and the goose asked "Why;"
      And the dog said nothing, but searched for fleas.

  The farmer he strode through the square farmyard;
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  His last brew of ale was a trifle hard,
      The connection of which with the plot one sees.

  The farmer's daughter hath frank blue eyes,
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  She hears the rooks caw in the windy skies,
      As she sits at her lattice and shells her peas.

  The farmer's daughter hath ripe red lips;
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  If you try to approach her, away she skips
      Over tables and chairs with apparent ease.

  The farmer's daughter hath soft brown hair;
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  And I met with a ballad, I can't say where,
      Which wholly consisted of lines like these.

  She sat with her hands 'neath her dimpled cheeks,
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  And spake not a word. While a lady speaks
      There is hope, but she didn't even sneeze.

  She sat with her hands 'neath her crimson cheeks;
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  She gave up mending her father's breeks,
      And let the cat roll in her best chemise.

  She sat with her hands 'neath her burning cheeks
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_),
  And gazed at the piper for thirteen weeks;
      Then she followed him out o'er the misty leas.

  Her sheep followed her as their tails did them
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_),
  And this song is considered a perfect gem,
      And as to the meaning, it's what you please.

                          _Charles S. Calverley_.




NOT I

  Some like drink
      In a pint pot,
  Some like to think,
      Some not.

  Strong Dutch cheese,
      Old Kentucky Rye,
  Some like these;
      Not I.

  Some like Poe,
      And others like Scott;
  Some like Mrs. Stowe,
      Some not.

  Some like to laugh,
      Some like to cry,
  Some like to chaff;
      Not I.

                          _R.L. Stevenson_.




MINNIE AND WINNIE

  Minnie and Winnie
      Slept in a shell.
  Sleep, little ladies!
      And they slept well.

  Pink was the shell within,
      Silver without;
  Sounds of the great sea
      Wandered about.

  Sleep little ladies!
      Wake not soon!
  Echo on echo
      Dies to the moon.

  Two bright stars
      Peep'd into the shell,
  What are they dreaming of?
      Who can tell?

  Started a green linnet
      Out of the croft;
  Wake, little ladies,
      The sun is aloft!

                          _Lord Tennyson_.




THE MAYOR OF SCUTTLETON

  The Mayor of Scuttleton burned his nose
  Trying to warm his copper toes;
  He lost his money and spoiled his will
  By signing his name with an icicle quill;
  He went bareheaded, and held his breath,
  And frightened his grandame most to death;
  He loaded a shovel and tried to shoot,
  And killed the calf in the leg of his boot;

  He melted a snowbird and formed the habit
  Of dancing jigs with a sad Welsh rabbit;
  He lived on taffy and taxed the town;
  And read his newspaper upside down;
  Then he sighed and hung his hat on a feather,
  And bade the townspeople come together;
  But the worst of it all was, nobody knew
  What the Mayor of Scuttleton next would do.

                          _Mary Mapes Dodge_.




THE PURPLE COW

  I never saw a Purple Cow,
      I never hope to see one;
  But I can tell you, anyhow,
      I'd rather see than be one.

  ENVOI

  Ah yes, I wrote the Purple Cow,
      I'm sorry now I wrote it.
  But I can tell you anyhow,
      I'll kill you if you quote it.

                          _Gelett Burgess_.




THE INVISIBLE BRIDGE

  I'd Never Dare to Walk across
      A Bridge I Could Not See;
  For Quite afraid of Falling off,
      I fear that I Should Be!

                          _Gelett Burgess_.




THE LAZY ROOF

  The Roof it has a Lazy Time
      A-lying in the Sun;
  The Walls they have to Hold Him Up;
      They do Not Have Much Fun!

                          _Gelett Burgess_.




MY FEET

  My feet, they haul me Round the House,
      They Hoist me up the Stairs;
  I only have to Steer them and
      They Ride me Everywheres.

                          _Gelett Burgess_.




THE HEN

  Alas! my Child, where is the Pen
  That can do Justice to the Hen?
  Like Royalty, She goes her way,
  Laying foundations every day,
  Though not for Public Buildings, yet
  For Custard, Cake and Omelette.

  Or if too Old for such a use
  They have their Fling at some Abuse,
  As when to Censure Plays Unfit
  Upon the Stage they make a Hit,
  Or at elections Seal the Fate
  Of an Obnoxious Candidate.
  No wonder, Child, we prize the Hen,
  Whose Egg is Mightier than the Pen.

                          _Oliver Herford_.




THE COW

  The Cow is too well known, I fear,
  To need an introduction here.
  If She should vanish from earth's face
  It would be hard to fill her place;
  For with the Cow would disappear
  So much that every one holds Dear.
  Oh, think of all the Boots and Shoes,
  Milk Punches, Gladstone Bags and Stews,
  And Things too numerous to count,
  Of which, my child, she is the Fount.
  Let's hope, at least, the Fount may last
  Until _our_ Generation's past.

                          _Oliver Herford_.




THE CHIMPANZEE

  Children, behold the Chimpanzee:
  He sits on the ancestral tree
  From which we sprang in ages gone.
  I'm glad we sprang: had we held on,
  We might, for aught that I can say,
  Be horrid Chimpanzees today.

                          _Oliver Herford_.




THE HIPPOPOTAMUS

  "Oh, say, what is this fearful, wild,
  Incorrigible cuss?"
  "This _creature_ (don't say 'cuss,' my child;
  'Tis slang)--this creature fierce is styled
  The Hippopotamus.
  His curious name derives its source
  From two Greek words: _hippos_--a horse,
  _Potamos_--river. See?
  The river's plain enough, of course;
  But why they called _that_ thing a _horse_,
  That's what is Greek to me."

                          _Oliver Herford_.




THE PLATYPUS

  My child, the Duck-billed Platypus
  A sad example sets for us:
  From him we learn how Indecision
  Of character provokes Derision.

  This vacillating Thing, you see,
  Could not decide which he would be,
  Fish, Flesh or Fowl, and chose all three.
  The scientists were sorely vexed
  To classify him; so perplexed
  Their brains, that they, with Rage at bay,
  Call him a horrid name one day,--
  A name that baffles, frights and shocks us,
  Ornithorhynchus Paradoxus.

                          _Oliver Herford_.




SOME GEESE

  Ev-er-y child who has the use
  Of his sen-ses knows a goose.
  See them un-der-neath the tree
  Gath-er round the goose-girl's knee,
  While she reads them by the hour
  From the works of Scho-pen-hau-er.

  How pa-tient-ly the geese at-tend!
  But do they re-al-ly com-pre-hend
  What Scho-pen-hau-er's driv-ing at?
  Oh, not at all; but what of that?
  Nei-ther do I; nei-ther does she;
  And, for that mat-ter, nor does he.

                          _Oliver Herford_.




THE FLAMINGO

  _Inspired by reading a chorus of spirits in a German play_


  FIRST VOICE.

  Oh! tell me have you ever seen a red, long-leg'd Flamingo?
  Oh! tell me have you ever yet seen him the water in go?

  SECOND VOICE.

  Oh! yes at Bowling-Green I've seen a red long-leg'd Flamingo,
  Oh! yes at Bowling-Green I've there seen him the water in go.

  FIRST VOICE.

  Oh! tell me did you ever see a bird so funny stand-o
  When forth he from the water comes and gets upon the land-o?

  SECOND VOICE.

  No! in my life I ne'er did see a bird so funny stand-o
  When forth he from the water comes and gets upon the land-o.

  FIRST VOICE.

  He has a leg some three feet long, or near it, so they say, Sir.
  Stiff upon one alone he stands, t'other he stows away, Sir.

  SECOND VOICE.

  And what an ugly head he's got! I wonder that he'd wear it.
  But rather _more_ I wonder that his long, thin neck can bear it.

  FIRST VOICE.

  And think, this length of neck and legs (no doubt they have their
       uses)
  Are members of a little frame, much smaller than a goose's!

  BOTH.

  Oh! isn't he a curious bird, that red, long-leg'd Flamingo?
  A water bird, a gawky bird, a sing'lar  bird, by jingo!

                          _Lewis Gaylord Clark_.




KINDNESS TO ANIMALS

  Speak gently to the herring and kindly to the calf,
  Be blithesome with the bunny, at barnacles don't laugh!
  Give nuts unto the monkey, and buns unto the bear,
  Ne'er hint at currant jelly if you chance to see a hare!
  Oh, little girls, pray hide your combs when tortoises draw nigh,
  And never in the hearing of a pigeon whisper Pie!
  But give the stranded jelly-fish a shove into the sea,--
  Be always kind to animals wherever you may be!

  Oh, make not game of sparrows, nor faces at the ram,
  And ne'er allude to mint sauce when calling on a lamb.
  Don't beard the thoughtful oyster, don't dare the cod to crimp,
  Don't cheat the pike, or ever try to pot the playful shrimp.
  Tread lightly on the turning worm, don't bruise the butterfly,
  Don't ridicule the wry-neck, nor sneer at salmon-fry;
  Oh, ne'er delight to make dogs fight, nor bantams disagree,--
  Be always kind to animals wherever you may be!

  Be lenient with lobsters, and ever kind to crabs,
  And be not disrespectful to cuttle-fish or dabs;
  Chase not the Cochin-China, chaff not the ox obese,
  And babble not of feather-beds in company with geese.
  Be tender with the tadpole, and let the limpet thrive,
  Be merciful to mussels, don't skin your eels alive;
  When talking to a turtle don't mention calipee--
  Be always kind to animals wherever you may be.

                          _J. Ashby-Sterry_.




SAGE COUNSEL

  The lion is the beast to fight,
          He leaps along the plain,
        And if you run with all your might,
      He runs with all his mane.
        I'm glad I'm not a Hottentot,
        But if I were, with outward cal-lum
            I'd either faint upon the spot
            Or hie me up a leafy pal-lum.

  The chamois is the beast to hunt;
        He's fleeter than the wind,
  And when the chamois is in front,
        The hunter is behind.
          The Tyrolese make famous cheese
          And hunt the chamois o'er the chaz-zums;
          I'd choose the former if you please,
          For precipices give me spaz-zums.

  The polar bear will make a rug
        Almost as white as snow;
  But if he gets you in his hug,
        He rarely lets you go.
          And Polar ice looks very nice,
          With all the colors of a pris-sum;
          But, if you'll follow my advice,
          Stay home and learn your catechissum.

                          _A.T. Quiller-Couch_.




OF BAITING THE LION

  Remembering his taste for blood
      You'd better bait him with a cow;
  Persuade the brute to chew the cud
      Her tail suspended from a bough;
  It thrills the lion through and through
      To hear the milky creature moo.

  Having arranged this simple ruse,
      Yourself you climb a neighboring tree;
  See to it that the spot you choose
      Commands the coming tragedy;
  Take up a smallish Maxim gun,
      A search-light, whisky, and a bun.

  It's safer, too, to have your bike
      Standing immediately below,
  In case your piece should fail to strike,
      Or deal an ineffective blow;
  The Lion moves with perfect grace,
      But cannot go the scorcher's pace.

  Keep open ear for subtle signs;
      Thus, when the cow profusely moans,
  That means to say, the Lion dines.
      The crunching sound, of course, is bones;
  Silence resumes her ancient reign--
      This shows the cow is out of pain.

  But when a fat and torpid hum
      Escapes the eater's unctuous nose,
  Turn up the light and let it come
      Full on his innocent repose;
  Then pour your shot between his eyes,
      And go on pouring till he dies.

  Play, even so, discretion's part;
      Descend with stealth; bring on your gun;
  Then lay your hand above his heart
      To see if he is really done;
  Don't skin him till you know he's dead
      Or you may perish in his stead!

  Years hence, at home, when talk is tall,
      You'll set the gun-room wide agape,
  Describing how with just a small
      Pea-rifle, going after ape
  You met a Lion unaware,
      And felled him flying through the air.

                          _Owen Seaman_.




THE FROG

  Be kind and tender to the Frog,
      And do not call him names,
  As "Slimy-Skin," or "Polly-wog,"
      Or likewise, "Uncle James,"
  Or "Gape-a-grin," or "Toad-gone-wrong,"
      Or "Billy-Bandy-knees;"
  The Frog is justly sensitive
      To epithets like these.

  No animal will more repay
      A treatment kind and fair,
  At least, so lonely people say
  Who keep a frog (and, by the way,
      They are extremely rare).

                          _Hilaire Belloc_.




THE YAK

  As a friend to the children commend me the yak,
        You will find it exactly the thing:
  It will carry and fetch, you can ride on its back,
        Or lead it about with a string.

  A Tartar who dwells on the plains of Thibet
        (A desolate region of snow)
  Has for centuries made it a nursery pet,
        And surely the Tartar should know!

  Then tell your papa where the Yak can be got,
        And if he is awfully rich,
  He will buy you the creature--or else he will not,
        (I cannot be positive which).

                          _Hilaire Belloc_.




THE PYTHON

  A python  I should not advise,
  It needs a doctor for its eyes,
        And has the measles yearly.

  However, if you feel inclined
  To get one (to improve your mind,
        And not from fashion merely),

  Allow no music near its cage;
  And when it flies into a rage
        Chastise it most severely.

  I had an Aunt in Yucatan
  Who bought a Python from a man
        And kept it for a pet.

  She died because she never knew
  These simple little rules and few;--
        The snake is living yet.

                          _Hilaire Belloc_.




THE BISON

  The Bison is vain, and (I write it with pain)
      The Door-mat you see on his head
  Is not, as some learned professors maintain,
  The opulent growth of a genius' brain;
      But is sewn on with needle and thread.

                          _Hilaire Belloc_.




THE PANTHER

  Be kind to the panther! for when thou wert young,
      In thy country far over the sea,
  'Twas a panther ate up thy papa and mamma,
      And had several mouthfuls of thee!

  Be kind to the badger! for who shall decide
      The depths of his badgerly soul?
  And think of the tapir when flashes the lamp
      O'er the fast and the free-flowing bowl.

  Be kind to the camel! nor let word of thine
      Ever put up his bactrian back;
  And cherish the she-kangaroo with her bag,
      Nor venture to give her the sack.

  Be kind to the ostrich! for how canst thou hope
      To have such a stomach as it?
  And when the proud day of your bridal shall come,
      Do give the poor birdie a bit.

  Be kind to the walrus! nor ever forget
      To have it on Tuesday to tea;
  But butter the crumpets on only one side,
      Save such as are eaten by thee.

  Be kind to the bison! and let the jackal
      In the light of thy love have a share;
  And coax the ichneumon to grow a new tail,
      And have lots of larks in its lair.

  Be kind to the bustard! that genial bird,
      And humor its wishes and ways;
  And when the poor elephant suffers from bile,
      Then tenderly lace up his stays!

                          _Anonymous_.




THE MONKEY'S GLUE

  When the monkey in his madness
      Took the glue to mend his voice,
  'Twas the crawfish showed his sadness
      That the bluebird could rejoice.

  Then the perspicacious parrot
      Sought to save the suicide
  By administering carrot,
      But the monkey merely died.

  So the crawfish and the parrot
      Sauntered slowly toward the sea,
  While the bluebird stole the carrot
      And returned the glue to me.

                          _Goldwin Goldsmith_.




THERE WAS A FROG

  There was a frog swum in the lake,
      The crab came crawling by:
  "Wilt thou," coth the frog, "be my make?"
      Coth the crab, "No, not I."
  "My skin is sooth and dappled fine,
      I can leap far and nigh.
  Thy shell is hard: so is not mine."
      Coth the crab, "No, not I."
  "Tell me," then spake the crab, "therefore,
      Or else I thee defy:
  Give me thy claw, I ask no more."
      Coth the frog, "That will I."
  The crab bit off the frog's fore-feet;
      The frog then he must die.
  To woo a crab it is not meet:
      If any do, it is not I.

                          _From Christ Church MS., I. 549_.




THE BLOATED BIGGABOON

  The bloated Biggaboon
  Was so haughty, he would not repose
  In a house, or a hall, or _ces choses_,
  But he slept his high sleep in his clothes--
        'Neath the moon.
        The bloated Biggaboon
  Pour'd contempt upon waistcoat and skirt,
  Holding swallow-tails even as dirt--
  So he puff'd himself out in his shirt,
        Like a b'loon.

                          _H. Cholmondeley-Pennell_.




WILD FLOWERS

  "Of what are you afraid, my child?" inquired the kindly teacher.
  "Oh, sir! the flowers, they are wild," replied the timid creature.

                          _Peter Newell_.




TIMID HORTENSE


  "Now, if the fish will only bite, we'll have some royal fun."
  "And do fish bite? The horrid things! Indeed, I'll not catch one!"

                          _Peter Newell_.




HER POLKA DOTS

  She played upon her music-box a fancy air by chance,
  And straightway all her polka-dots began a lively dance.

                          _Peter Newell_.




HER DAIRY

  "A milkweed, and a buttercup, and cowslip," said sweet Mary,
  "Are growing in my garden-plot, and this I call my dairy."

                          _Peter Newell_.




TURVEY TOP

  'Twas after a supper of Norfolk brawn
      That into a doze I chanced to drop,
  And thence awoke in the gray of dawn,
      In the wonder-land of Turvey Top.

  A land so strange I never had seen,
      And could not choose but look and laugh--
  A land where the small the great includes,
      And the whole is less than the half!

  A land where the circles were not lines
      Round central points, as schoolmen show,
  And the parallels met whenever they chose,
      And went playing at touch-and-go!

  There--except that every round was square
      And save that all the squares were rounds--
  No surface had limits anywhere,
      So they never could beat the bounds.

  In their gardens, fruit before blossom came,
      And the trees diminished as they grew;
  And you never went out to walk a mile,
      'Twas the mile that walked to you.

  The people there are not tall or short,
      Heavy or light, or stout or thin,
  And their lives begin where they should leave off,
      Or leave off where they should begin.

  There childhood, with naught of childish glee,
      Looks on the world with thoughtful brow;
  'Tis only the aged who laugh and crow,
      And cry, "We have done with it now!"

  A singular race! what lives they spent!
      Got up before they went to bed!
  And never a man said what he meant,
      Or a woman meant what she said.

  They blended colours that will not blend,
      All hideous contrasts voted sweet;
  In yellow and red their Quakers dress'd,
      And considered it rather neat.

  They didn't believe in the wise and good,
      Said the best were worst, the wisest fools;
  And 'twas only to have their teachers taught
      That they founded national schools.

  They read in "books that are no books,"
      Their classics--chess-boards neatly bound;
  Those their greatest authors who never wrote,
      And their deepest the least profound.

  Now, such were the folks of that wonder-land,
      A curious people, as you will own;
  But are there none of the race abroad,
      Are no specimens elsewhere known?

  Well, I think that he whose views of life
      Are crooked, wrong, perverse, and odd,
  Who looks upon all with jaundiced eyes--
      Sees himself and believes it God,

  Who sneers at the good, and makes the ill,
      Curses a world he cannot mend;
  Who measures life by the rule of wrong
      And abuses its aim and end,

  The man who stays when he ought to move,
      And only goes when he ought to stop--
  Is strangely like the folk in my dream,
      And would flourish in Turvey Top.

                          _Anonymous_.




WHAT THE PRINCE OF I DREAMT

  I dreamt it! such a funny thing--
      And now it's taken wing;
  I s'pose no man before or since
      Dreamt such a funny thing?

  It had a Dragon; with a tail;
      A tail both long and slim,
  And ev'ry day he wagg'd at it--
      How good it was of him!

  And so to him the tailest
      Of all three-tailed Bashaws,
  Suggested that for reasons
      The waggling should pause;

  And held his tail--which, parting,
      Reversed that Bashaw, which
  Reversed that Dragon, who reversed
      Himself into a ditch.

       *       *       *       *       *

  It had a monkey--in a trap--
      Suspended by the tail:
  Oh! but that monkey look'd distress'd,
      And his countenance was pale.

  And he had danced and dangled there;
      Till he grew very mad:
  For his tail it was a handsome tail
      And the trap had pinched it--bad.

  The trapper sat below, and grinn'd;
      His victim's wrath wax'd hot:
  He bit his tail in two--and fell--
      And killed him on the spot.

       *       *       *       *       *

  It had a pig--a stately pig;
      With curly tail and quaint:
  And the Great Mogul had hold of that
      Till he was like to faint.

  So twenty thousand Chinamen,
      With three tails each at least,
  Came up to help the Great Mogul,
      And took him round the waist.

  And so, the tail slipp'd through his hands;
      And so it came to pass,
  That twenty thousand Chinamen
      Sat down upon the grass.

       *       *       *       *       *

  It had a Khan--a Tartar Khan--
      With tail superb, I wis;
  And that fell graceful down a back
      Which was considered his.

  Wherefore all sorts of boys that were
      Accursed, swung by it;
  Till he grew savage in his mind
      And vex'd, above a bit:

  And so he swept his tail, as one
      Awak'ning from a dream;
  And those abominable ones
      Flew off into the stream.

  Likewise they hobbled up and down,
      Like many apples there;
  Till they subsided--and became
      Amongst the things that were.

       *       *       *       *       *

  And so it had a moral too,
      That would be bad to lose;
  "Whoever takes a Tail in hand
      Should mind his p's and queues."

  I dreamt it!--such a funny thing!
      And now it's taken wing;
  I s'pose no man before or since
      Dreamt such a funny thing?

                          _H. Cholmondeley-Pennell_.




THE DINKEY-BIRD

  In an ocean, 'way out yonder
      (As all sapient people know),
  Is the land of Wonder-Wander,
      Whither children love to go;
  It's their playing, romping, swinging,
      That give great joy to me
  While the Dinkey-Bird goes singing
      In the Amfalula-tree!

  There the gum-drops grow like cherries,
      And taffy's thick as peas,--
  Caramels you pick like berries
      When, and where, and how you please:
  Big red sugar-plums are clinging
      To the cliffs beside that sea
  Where the Dinkey-Bird is singing
      In the Amfalula-tree.

  So when children shout and scamper
      And make merry all the day,
  When there's naught to put a damper
      To the ardor of their play;
  When I hear their laughter ringing,
      Then I'm sure as sure can be
  That the Dinkey-Bird is singing
      In the Amfalula-tree.

  For the Dinkey-Bird's bravuras
      And staccatos are so sweet--
  His roulades, appogiaturas,
      And robustos so complete,
  That the youth of every nation--
      Be they near or far away--
  Have especial delectation
      In that gladsome roundelay.

  Their eyes grow bright and brighter,
      Their lungs begin to crow,
  Their hearts get light and lighter,
      And their cheeks are all aglow;
  For an echo cometh bringing
      The news to all and me.
  That the Dinkey-Bird is singing
      In the Amfalula-tree.

  I'm sure you'd like to go there
      To see your feathered friend--
  And so many goodies grow there
      You would like to comprehend!
  _Speed, little dreams, your winging
      To that land across the sea
  Where the Dickey-Bird is singing
      In the Amfalula-Tree_!

                          _Eugene Field_.




THE MAN IN THE MOON

  Said the Raggedy Man on a hot afternoon,
      "My!
        Sakes!
          What a lot o' mistakes
  Some little folks makes on the Man in the Moon!
  But people that's been up to see him like Me,
  And calls on him frequent and intimutly,
  Might drop a few hints that would interest you
      Clean!
        Through!
          If you wanted 'em to--
  Some actual facts that might interest you!"

  "O the Man in the Moon has a crick in his back;
      Whee!
        Whimm!
          Ain't you sorry for him?
  And a mole on his nose that is purple and black;
  And his eyes are so weak that they water and run
  If he dares to _dream_ even he looks at the sun,--
  So he jes' dreams of stars, as the doctors advise--
        My!
            Eyes!
                But isn't he wise--
  To jes' dream of stars, as the doctors advise?"

  "And the Man in the Moon has a boil on his ear--
        Whee!
            Whing!
                What a singular thing!
  I know! but these facts are authentic, my dear,--
  There's a boil on his ear; and a corn on his chin,--
  He calls it a dimple,--but dimples stick in,--
  Yet it might be a dimple turned over, you know!
        Whang!
            Ho!
                Why certainly so!--
  It might be a dimple turned over, you know!"

  "And the Man in the Moon has a rheumatic knee,
        Gee!
            Whizz!
                What a pity that is!
  And his toes have worked round where his heels ought to be.
  So whenever he wants to go North he goes South,
  And comes back with the porridge crumbs all round his mouth,
  And he brushes them off with a Japanese fan,
        Whing!
            Whann!
                What a marvellous man!
  What a very remarkably marvellous man!"

  "And the Man in the Moon," sighed the Raggedy Man,
        "Gits!
            So!
                Sullonesome, you know!
  Up there by himself since creation began!--
  That when I call on him and then come away,
  He grabs me and holds me and begs me to stay,--
  Till--well, if it wasn't for _Jimmy-cum-Jim_,
        Dadd!
            Limb!
                I'd go pardners with him!
  Jes' jump my bob here and be pardners with him!"

                          _James Whitcomb Riley_.





THE STORY OF THE WILD HUNTSMAN

  This is the Wild Huntsman that shoots the hares;
  With the grass-green coat he always wears;
  With game-bag, powder-horn and gun,
  He's going out to have some fun.
  He finds it hard without a pair
  Of spectacles, to shoot the hare.

  He put his spectacles upon his nose, and said,
  "Now I will shoot the hares and kill them dead."
  The hare sits snug in leaves and grass,
  And laughs to see the green man pass.
  Now as the sun grew very hot,
  And he a heavy gun had got,
  He lay down underneath a tree
  And went to sleep as you may see.
  And, while he slept like any top,
  The little hare came, hop, hop, hop,--
  Took gun and spectacles, and then
  Softly on tiptoe went off again.
  The green man wakes, and sees her place
  The spectacles upon her face.
  She pointed the gun at the hunter's heart,
  Who jumped up at once with a start.
  He cries, and screams, and runs away.
  "Help me, good people, help! I pray."
  At last he stumbled at the well,
  Head over ears, and in he fell.
  The hare stopped short, took aim, and hark!
  Bang went the gun!--she missed her mark!
  The poor man's wife was drinking up
  Her coffee in her coffee-cup;
  The gun shot cup and saucer through;
  "Oh dear!" cried she, "what shall I do?"
  Hiding close by the cottage there,
  Was the hare's own child, the little hare.
  When he heard the shot he quickly arose,
  And while he stood upon his toes,
  The coffee fell and burned his nose;
  "Oh dear," he cried, "what burns me so?"
  And held up the spoon with his little toe.

                          _Dr. Heinrich Hoffman_.




THE STORY OF PYRAMID THOTHMES

  Thothmes, who loved a pyramid,
  And dreamed of wonders that it hid,
  Took up again one afternoon,
  His longest staff, his sandal shoon,
  His evening meal, his pilgrim flask,
  And set himself at length the task,
  Scorning the smaller and the small,
  To climb the highest one of all.

  The sun was very hot indeed,
  Yet Thothmes never slacked his speed
  Until upon the topmost stone
  He lightly sat him down alone
  To make himself some pleasant cheer
  And turned to take his flask of beer,
  For he was weary and athirst.
  Forth from the neck the stopper burst
  And rudely waked the sleeping dead.
  In terror guilty Thothmes fled
  As rose majestic, wroth and slow,
  The Pharaoh's Ka of long ago.
  "Help! help!" he cried, "or I am lost!
  Oh! save me from old Pharaoh's ghost!"

  Till, uttering one fearful yell,
  He stumbled at the base and fell
  Where Anubis was at his side,
  And, by the god of death, he died.

  The wife of Thothmes learned his tale
  First from the "Memphis Evening Mail,"
  And called her son, and told their woe;
  "Alas!" said she, "I told him so!
  Oh, think upon these awful things
  And mount not on the graves of kings!
  A pyramid is strange to see,
  Though only at its base you be."

                          _Anonymous_.




THE STORY OF CRUEL PSAMTEK

  Here is cruel Psamtek, see.
  Such a wicked boy was he!
  Chased the ibis round about,
  Plucked its longest feathers out,
  Stamped upon the sacred scarab
  Like an unbelieving Arab,
  Put the dog and cat to pain,
  Making them to howl again.
  Only think what he would do--
  Tease the awful Apis too!
  Basking by the sacred Nile
  Lay the trusting crocodile;
  Cruel Psamtek crept around him,
  Laughed to think how he had found him,
  With his pincers seized his tail,
  Made the holy one to wail;
  Till a priest of Isis came,
  Called the wicked boy by name,
  Shut him in a pyramid,
  Where his punishment was hid.
  --But the crocodile the while
  Bore the pincers up the Nile--
  Here the scribe who taught him letters,
  And respect for all his betters,
  Gave him many a heavy task,
  Horrid medicines from a flask,
  While on bread and water, too,
  Bitter penance must he do.

  The Crocodile is blythe and gay,
  With friends and family at play,
  And cries, "O blessed Land of Nile,
  Where sacred is the crocodile,
  Where no ill deed unpunished goes,
  And man himself rewards our foes!"

                          _Anonymous_.




THE CUMBERBUNCE

  I strolled beside the shining sea,
  I was as lonely as could be;
  No one to cheer me in my walk
  But stones and sand, which cannot talk--
  Sand and stones and bits of shell,
  Which never have a thing to tell.

  But as I sauntered by the tide
  I saw a something at my side,
  A something green, and blue, and pink,
  And brown, and purple, too, I think.
  I would not say how large it was;
  I would not venture that, because
  It took me rather by surprise,
  And I have not the best of eyes.

  Should you compare it to a cat,
  I'd say it was as large as that;
  Or should you ask me if the thing
  Was smaller than a sparrow's wing,
  I should be apt to think you knew,
  And simply answer, "Very true!"

  Well, as I looked upon the thing,
  It murmured, "Please, sir, can I sing?"
  And then I knew its name at once--
  It plainly was a Cumberbunce.

  You are amazed that I could tell
  The creature's name so quickly? Well,
  I knew it was not a paper-doll,
  A pencil or a parasol,
  A tennis-racket or a cheese,
  And, as it was not one of these,
  And I am not a perfect dunce--
  It had to be a Cumberbunce!

  With pleading voice and tearful eye
  It seemed as though about to cry.
  It looked so pitiful and sad
  It made me feel extremely bad.
  My heart was softened to the thing
  That asked me if it, please, could sing.
  Its little hand I longed to shake,
  But, oh, it had no hand to take!
  I bent and drew the creature near,
  And whispered in its pale blue ear,
  "What! Sing, my Cumberbunce? You can!
  Sing on, sing loudly, little man!"

  The Cumberbunce, without ado,
  Gazed sadly on the ocean blue,
  And, lifting up its little head,
  In tones of awful longing, said:

    "Oh, I would sing of mackerel skies,
      And why the sea is wet,
    Of jelly-fish and conger-eels,
       And things that I forget.
    And I would hum a plaintive tune
      Of why the waves are hot
    As water boiling on a stove,
      Excepting that they're not!"

    "And I would sing of hooks and eyes,
      And why the sea is slant,
    And gayly tips the little ships,
      Excepting that I can't!
    I never sang a single song,
      I never hummed a note.
    There is in me no melody,
      No music in my throat."

    "So that is why I do not sing
    Of sharks, or whales, or anything!"

  I looked in innocent surprise,
  My wonder showing in my eyes.
  "Then why, O, Cumberbunce," I cried,
  "Did you come walking at my side
  And ask me if you, please, might sing,
  When you could not warble anything?"

  "I did not ask permission, sir,
  I really did not, I aver.
  You, sir, misunderstood me, quite.
  I did not ask you if I _might_.
  Had you correctly understood,
  You'd know I asked you if I _could_.
  So, as I cannot sing a song,
  Your answer, it is plain, was wrong.
  The fact I could not sing I knew,
  But wanted your opinion, too."

    A voice came softly o'er the lea.
      "Farewell! my mate is calling me!"

  I saw the creature disappear,
  Its voice, in parting, smote my ear--

  "I thought all people understood
  The difference 'twixt 'might' and 'could'!"

                          _Paul West_.




THE AHKOND OF SWAT

  Who, or why, or which, or _what_,
                                Is the Ahkond of Swat?

  Is he tall or short, or dark or fair?
  Does he sit on a stool or sofa or chair,
                                             or Squat,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  Is he wise or foolish, young or old?
  Does he drink his soup and his coffee cold,
                                               or Hot,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he sing or whistle, jabber or talk,
  And when riding abroad does he gallop or walk,
                                              or Trot,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he wear a turban, a fez or a hat?
  Does he sleep on a mattress, a bed or a mat,
                                             or a Cot,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  When he writes a copy in round-hand size,
  Does he cross his t's and finish his i's
                                           with a Dot,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  Can he write a letter concisely clear,
  Without a speck or a smudge or smear
                                              or Blot,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  Do his people like him extremely well?
  Or do they, whenever they can, rebel,
                                             or Plot,
                               At the Ahkond of Swat?

  If he catches them then, either old or young,
  Does he have them chopped in pieces or hung,
                                             or Shot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Do his people prig in the lanes or park?
  Or even at times, when days are dark,
                                             Garotte?
                              Oh, the Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he study the wants of his own dominion?
  Or doesn't he care for public opinion
                                               a Jot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  To amuse his mind do his people show him
  Pictures, or any one's last new poem,
                                             or What,
                              For the Ahkond of Swat?

  At night if he suddenly screams and wakes,
  Do they bring him only a few small cakes,
                                            or a Lot,
                              For the Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he live on turnips, tea or tripe,
  Does he like his shawl to be marked with a stripe
                                            or a Dot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he like to lie on his back in a boat
  Like the lady who lived in that isle remote,
                                             Shalott.
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Is he quiet, or always making a fuss?
  Is his steward a Swiss or a Swede or a Russ,
                                           or a Scot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he like to sit by the calm blue wave?
  Or to sleep and snore in a dark green cave,
                                          or a Grott,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he drink small beer from a silver jug?
  Or a bowl? or a glass? or a cup? or a mug?
                                            or a Pot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he beat his wife with a gold-topped pipe,
  When she lets the gooseberries grow too ripe,
                                              or Rot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he wear a white tie when he dines with his friends,
  And tie it neat in a bow with ends,
                                           or a Knot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he like new cream, and hate mince-pies?
  When he looks at the sun does he wink his eyes,
                                              or Not,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he teach his subjects to roast and bake?
  Does he sail about on an inland lake,
                                          in a Yacht,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Some one, or nobody knows I wot
  Who or which or why or what
                               Is the Ahkond of Swat!

                          _Edward Lear_.




A THRENODY


  What, what, what,
  What's the news from Swat?
  Sad news,
  Bad news,
  Comes by the cable led
  Through the Indian Ocean's bed,
  Through the Persian Gulf, the Red
  Sea and the Med-
  Iterranean--he's dead;
  The Ahkoond is dead!

  For the Ahkoond I mourn,
        Who wouldn't?
  He strove to disregard the message stern,
        But he Ahkoodn't.
  Dead, dead, dead;
        (Sorrow Swats!)
  Swats wha hae wi' Ahkoond bled,
  Swats whom he hath often led
  Onward to a gory bed,
        Or to Victory,
        As the case might be,
          Sorrow Swats!
        Tears shed,
          Tears shed like water,
  Your great Ahkoond is dead!
        That Swats the matter!

  Mourn, city of Swat!
  Your great Ahkoond is not,
  But lain 'mid worms to rot.
  His mortal part alone, his soul was caught
        (Because he was a good Ahkoond)
        Up to the bosom of Mahound.
  Though earthly walls his frame surround
  (Forever hallowed be the ground!)
  And sceptics mock the lowly mound
  And say "He's now of no Ahkoond!"
        His soul is in the skies--
  The azure skies that bend above his loved
          Metropolis of Swat.
     He sees with larger, other eyes,
        Athwart all earthly mysteries--
        He knows what's Swat.

  Let Swat bury the great Ahkoond
      With a noise of mourning and of lamentation!
  Let Swat bury the great Ahkoond
      With the noise of the mourning of the Swattish nation!
        Fallen is at length
        Its tower of strength,
  Its sun is dimmed ere it had nooned;
  Dead lies the great Ahkoond,
        The great Ahkoond of Swat
        Is not!

                          _George Thomas Lanigan_.




DIRGE OF THE MOOLLA OF KOTAL

  _Rival of the Akhoond of Swat_

  I.

  Alas, unhappy land;  ill-fated spot
  Kotal--though where or what
  On earth Kotal is, the bard has forgot;
  Further than this indeed he knoweth not--
  It borders upon Swat!


  II.

  When sorrows come, they come not single spies,
        But in battal-
  Ions: the gloom that lay on Swat now lies
        Upon Kotal,
  On sad Kotal, whose people ululate
  For their loved Moolla late.
  Put away his little turban,
  And his narghileh embrowned,
  The lord of Kotal--rural urban--
  'S gone unto his last Akhoond,
  'S gone to meet his rival Swattan,
  'S gone, indeed, but not forgotten.


  III.

  His rival, but in what?
  Wherein did the deceased Akhoond of Swat
  Kotal's lamented Moolla late,
  As it were, emulate?
  Was it in the tented field
  With crash of sword on shield,
  While backward meaner champions reeled
  And loud the tom-tom pealed?
  Did they barter gash for scar
  With the Persian scimetar
  Or the Afghanistee tulwar,
  While loud the tom-tom pealed--
  While loud the tom-tom pealed,
  And the jim-jam squealed,
  And champions less well heeled
  Their war-horses wheeled
  And fled the presence of these mortal big bugs o'
            the field?
  Was Kotal's proud citadel--
  Bastioned, and demi-luned,
  Beaten down with shot and shell
  By the guns of the Akhoond?
  Or were wails despairing caught, as
  The burghers pale of Swat
  Cried in panic, "Moolla ad Portas"?
          --Or what?
  Or made each in the cabinet his mark
  Kotalese Gortschakoff, Swattish Bismarck?
  Did they explain and render hazier
  The policies of Central Asia?
  Did they with speeches from the throne,
          Wars dynastic,
  Ententes cordiales,
  Between Swat and Kotal;
  Holy alliances,
  And other appliances
  Of statesmen with morals and consciences
          plastic
  Come by much more than their own?
  Made they mots, as "There to-day are
  No more Himalayehs,"
  Or, if you prefer it, "There to-day are
  No more Himalaya"?
  Oi, said the Akhoond, "Sah,
  L'État de Swat c'est moi"?
  Khabu, did there come great fear
  On thy Khabuldozed Ameer
          Ali Shere?

  Or did the Khan of far
        Kashgar
  Tremble at the menace hot
  Of the Moolla of Kotal,
  "I will extirpate thee, pal
  Of my foe the Akhoond of Swat"?
        Who knows
  Of Moolla and Akhoond aught more than I did?
  Namely, in life they rivals were, or foes,
  And in their deaths not very much divided?
  If any one knows it,
  Let him disclose it!

                          _George Thomas Lanigan_.




RUSSIAN AND TURK

  There was a Russian came over the sea,
      Just when the war was growing hot;
  And his name it was Tjalikavakaree-
      Karindobrolikanahudarot-
        Shibkadirova-
        Ivarditztova
        Sanilik
        Danerik
        Varagobhot.

  A Turk was standing upon the shore--
      Right where the terrible Russian crossed,
  And he cried: "Bismillah!  I'm Ab-El Kor-
      Bazarou-Kilgonautosgobross-
        Getfinpravadi-
        Kligekoladji
        Grivino
        Blivido-
        Jenikodosk!"

  So they stood like brave men long and well;
      And they called each other their proper names,
  Till the lockjaw seized them, and where they fell
       They buried them both by the Irdesholmmes
         Kalatalustchuk
         Mischtaribusiclup-
         Bulgari-
         Dulbary-
         Sagharimsing.

                          _Anonymous_.




LINES TO  MISS FLORENCE HUNTINGDON

  Sweet maiden of Passamaquoddy,
      Shall we seek for communion of souls
  Where the deep Mississippi meanders,
      Or the distant Saskatchewan rolls?

  Ah no,--for in Maine I will find thee
      A sweetly sequestrated nook,
  Where the far-winding Skoodoowabskooksis
      Conjoins with the Skoodoowabskook.

  There wander two beautiful rivers,
      With many a winding and crook;
  The one is the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      The other--the Skoodoowabskook.

  Ah, sweetest of haunts! though unmentioned
      In geography, atlas, or book,
  How fair is the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      When joining the Skoodoowabskook!

  Our cot shall be close by the waters
      Within that sequestrated nook--
  Reflected in Skoodoowabskooksis
      And mirrored in Skoodoowabskook.

  You shall sleep to the music of leaflets,
      By zephyrs in wantonness shook,
  And dream of the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      And, perhaps, of the Skoodoowabskook.

  When awaked by the hens and the roosters,
      Each morn, you shall joyously look
  On the junction of Skoodoowabskooksis
      With the soft gliding Skoodoowabskook.

  Your food shall be fish from the waters,
      Drawn forth on the point of a hook,
  From murmuring Skoodoowabskooksis,
      Or wandering Skoodoowabskook!

  You shall quaff the most sparkling of water,
      Drawn forth from a silvery brook
  Which flows to the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      And then to the Skoodoowabskook!

  And you shall preside at the banquet,
      And I will wait on thee as cook;
  And we'll talk of the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      And sing of the Skoodoowabskook!

  Let others sing loudly of Saco,
      Of Quoddy, and Tattamagouche,
  Of Kennebeccasis, and Quaco,
      Of Merigonishe, and Buctouche,

  Of Nashwaak, and Magaguadavique,
      Or Memmerimammericook,--
  There's none like the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      Excepting the Skoodoowabskook!

                          _Anonymous_.




COBBE'S PROPHECIES

  When the day and the night do meete
  And the houses are even with the streete:
  And the fire and the water agree,
  And blinde men have power to see:
  When the Wolf and the Lambe lie down togither,
  And the blasted trees will not wither:
  When the flood and the ebbe run one way,
  And the Sunne and the Moone are at a stay;
  When Age and Youth are all one,
  And the Miller creepes through the Mill-stone:
  When the Ram butts the Butcher on the head,
  And the living are buried with the dead.
  When the Cobler doth worke without his ends,
  And the Cutpurse and the Hangman are friends:
  Strange things will then be to see,
  But I think it will never be!

                          --_1614_.




AN UNSUSPECTED FACT

  If down his throat a man should choose
      In fun, to jump or slide,
  He'd scrape his shoes against his teeth,
      Nor dirt his own inside.
  But if his teeth were lost and gone,
  And not a stump to scrape upon,
  He'd see at once how very pat
  His tongue lay there by way of mat,
  And he would wipe his feet on _that_!

                          _Edward Cannon_.




THE SORROWS OF WERTHER

  Werther had a love for Charlotte
      Such as words could never utter;
  Would you know how first he met her?
      She was cutting bread and butter.

  Charlotte was a married lady,
      And a moral man was Werther,
  And for all the wealth of Indies,
      Would do nothing for to hurt her.

  So he sigh'd and pined and ogled,
      And his passion boil'd and bubbled,
  Till he blew his silly brains out,
      And no more was by it troubled.

  Charlotte, having seen his body
      Borne before her on a shutter,
  Like a well-conducted person,
      Went on cutting bread and butter.

                          _W.M. Thackeray_.




NONSENSE VERSES

  Lazy-bones, lazy-bones, wake up and peep!
  The cat's in the cupboard, your mother's asleep.
  There you sit snoring, forgetting her ills;
  Who is to give her her Bolus and Pills?
  Twenty fine Angels must come into town,
  All for to help you to make your new gown:
  Dainty aerial Spinsters and Singers;
  Aren't you ashamed to employ such white fingers?
  Delicate hands, unaccustom'd to reels,
  To set 'em working a poor body's wheels?
  Why they came down is to me all a riddle,
  And left Hallelujah broke off in the middle:
  Jove's Court, and the Presence angelical, cut--
  To eke out the work of a lazy young slut.
  Angel-duck, Angel-duck, winged and silly,
  Pouring a watering-pot over a lily,
  Gardener gratuitous, careless of pelf,
  Leave her to water her lily herself,
  Or to neglect it to death if she chuse it:
  Remember the loss is her own if she lose it.

                          _Charles Lamb_.




THE NOBLE TUCK-MAN

  Americus, as he did wend
      With A. J. Mortimer, his chum,
  The two were greeted by a friend,
      "And how are you, boys, Hi, Ho, Hum?"

  He spread a note so crisp, so neat
      (Ho, and Hi, and tender Hum),
  "If you of this a fifth can eat
      I'll give you the remainder. Come!"

  To the tuck-shop three repair,
      (Ho, and Hum, and pensive Hi),
  One looks on to see all's fair,
     Two call out for hot mince-pie.

  Thirteen tarts, a few Bath buns
      (Hi, and Hum, and gorgeous Ho),
  Lobster cakes (the butter'd ones),
      All at once they cry, "No go."

  Then doth tuck-man smile. "Them there
      (Ho, and Hi, and futile Hum)
  Jellies three and sixpence air,
      Use of spoons an equal sum."

  Three are rich. Sweet task 'tis o'er,
      "Tuckman, you're a brick," they cry,
  Wildly then shake hands all four
      (Hum and Ho, the end is Hi).

                          _Jean Ingelow_.




THE PESSIMIST

  Nothing to do but work,
      Nothing to eat but food,
  Nothing to wear but clothes
      To keep one from going nude.

  Nothing to breathe but air,
      Quick as a flash 'tis gone;
  Nowhere to fall but off,
      Nowhere to stand but on.

  Nothing to comb but hair,
      Nowhere to sleep but in bed,
  Nothing to weep but tears,
      Nothing to bury but dead.

  Nothing to sing but songs,
      Ah, well, alas! alack!
  Nowhere to go but out,
      Nowhere to come but back.

  Nothing to see but sights,
      Nothing to quench but thirst,
  Nothing to have but what we've got;
      Thus thro' life we are cursed.

  Nothing to strike but a gait;
      Everything moves that goes.
  Nothing at all but common sense
      Can ever withstand these woes.

                          _Ben King_.




THE MODERN HIAWATHA

  He killed the noble Mudjokivis.
  Of the skin he made him mittens,
  Made them with the fur side inside,
  Made them with the skin side outside.
  He, to get the warm side inside,
  Put the inside skin side outside;
  He, to get the cold side outside,
  Put the warm side fur side inside.
  That's why he put the fur side inside,
  Why he put the skin side outside,
  Why he turned them inside outside.

                          _Anonymous_.




ON THE ROAD

  Said Folly to Wisdom,
      "Pray, where are we going?"
  Said Wisdom to Folly,
      "There's no way of knowing."

  Said Folly to Wisdom,
      "Then what shall we do?"
  Said Wisdom to Folly,
      "I thought to ask you."

                          _Tudor Jenks_.




UNCLE SIMON AND UNCLE JIM

  Uncle Simon he
  Clum up a tree
  To see what he could see
  When presentlee
  Uncle Jim
  Clum up beside of him
  And squatted down by he.

                          _Artemus Ward_.




POOR DEAR GRANDPAPA

  What is the matter with Grandpapa?
  What can the matter be?
  He's broken his leg in trying to spell
  Tommy without a T.

                          _D' Arcy W. Thompson_.




THE SEA-SERPENT

  All bones but yours will rattle when I say
  I'm the sea-serpent from America.
  Mayhap you've heard that I've been round the world;
  I guess I'm round it now, Mister, twice curled.
  Of all the monsters through the deep that splash,
  I'm "number one" to all immortal smash.
  When I lie down and would my length unroll,
  There ar'n't half room enough 'twixt pole and pole.
  In short, I grow so long that I've a notion
  I must be measured soon for a new ocean.

                          _Planché_.




MELANCHOLIA

  I am a peevish student, I;
  My star is gone from yonder sky.
  I think it went so high at first
  That it just went and gone and burst.

                          _Anonymous_.




THE MONKEY'S WEDDING

  The monkey married the Baboon's sister,
  Smacked his lips and then he kissed her,
  He kissed so hard he raised a blister.
        She set up a yell.
  The bridesmaid stuck on some court plaster,
  It stuck so fast it couldn't stick faster,
  Surely 't was a sad disaster,
        But it soon got well.

  What do you think the bride was dressed in?
  White gauze veil and a green glass breast-pin,
  Red kid shoes--she was quite interesting,
        She was quite a belle.
  The bridegroom swell'd with a blue shirt collar,
  Black silk stock that cost a dollar,
  Large false whiskers the fashion to follow;
        He cut a monstrous swell.

  What do you think they had for supper?
  Black-eyed peas and bread and butter,
  Ducks in the duck-house all in a flutter,
        Pickled oysters too.
  Chestnuts raw and boil'd and roasted,
  Apples sliced and onions toasted,
  Music in the corner posted,
        Waiting for the cue.

  What do you think was the tune they danced to?
  "The drunken Sailor"--sometimes "Jim Crow,"
  Tails in the way--and some got pinched, too,
        'Cause they were too long.
  What do you think they had for a fiddle?
  An old Banjo with a hole in the middle,
  A Tambourine made out of a riddle,
        And that's the end of my song.

                          _Anonymous_.




MR. FINNEY'S TURNIP

  Mr. Finney had a turnip
  And it grew and it grew,
  And it grew behind the barn,
  And that turnip did no harm.

  There it grew and it grew
  Till it could grow no longer;
  Then his daughter Lizzie picked it
  And put it in the cellar.

  There it lay and it lay
  Till it began to rot;
  And his daughter Susie took it
  And put it in the pot.

  And they boiled it and boiled it
  As long as they were able,
  And then his daughters took it
  And put it on the table.

  Mr. Finney and his wife
  They sat down to sup;
  And they ate and they ate
  And they ate that turnip up.

                          _Anonymous_..




THE SUN

  The Sun, yon glorious orb of day,
  Ninety-four million miles away,
  Will keep revolving in its orbit
  Till heat and motion reabsorb it.

                          _J. Davis_.




THE AUTUMN  LEAVES

  The Autumn leaves are falling,
  Are falling here and there.
  They're falling through the atmosphere
  And also through the air.

                          _Anonymous_.




IN THE NIGHT

  The night was growing old
  As she trudged through snow and sleet;
  Her nose was long and cold,
  And her shoes were full of feet.

                              _Anonymous_.




POOR BROTHER

  How very sad it is to think
  Our poor benighted brother
  Should have his head upon one end,
  His feet upon the other.

                          _Anonymous_.




_THE  BOY_

  Down through the snow-drifts in the street
  With blustering joy he steers;
  His rubber boots are full of feet
  And his tippet full of ears.

                          _Eugene Field_.




_THE SEA_

  Behold the wonders of the mighty deep,
  Where crabs and lobsters learn to creep,
  And little fishes learn to swim,
  And clumsy sailors tumble in.

                          _Anonymous_.




_THERE WAS A LITTLE GIRL_

  There was a little girl,
      And she had a little curl
  Right in the middle of her forehead.
  When she was good
  She was very, very good,
      And when she was bad she was horrid.

  One day she went upstairs,
  When her parents, unawares,
      In the kitchen were occupied with meals
  And she stood upon her head
  In her little trundle-bed,
      And then began hooraying with her heels.

  Her mother heard the noise,
  And she thought it was the boys
      A-playing at a combat in the attic;
  But when she climbed the stair,
  And found Jemima there,
      She took and she did spank her most emphatic.

                          _H. W. Longfellow_.




FIN DE SIÈCLE

  The sorry world is sighing now;
      _La Grippe _is at the door;
  And many folks are dying now
      Who never died before.

                          _Newton Mackintosh_.




MARY JANE

  Mary Jane was a farmer's daughter,
  Mary Jane did what she oughter.
  She fell in love--but all in vain;
  Oh, poor Mary! oh, poor Jane!

                          _Anonymous_.




TENDER-HEARTEDNESS

  Little Willie, in the best of sashes,
  Fell in the fire and was burned to ashes.
  By and by the room grew chilly,
  But no one liked to poke up Willie.

                          _Col. D. Streamer_.




IMPETUOUS  SAMUEL

  Sam had spirits naught could check,
      And to-day, at breakfast, he
  Broke his baby sister's neck,
      So he sha'n't have jam for tea!

                          _Col. D. Streamer_.




MISFORTUNES NEVER COME SINGLY

  Making toast at the fireside,
  Nurse fell in the grate and died;
  And, what makes it ten times worse,
  All the toast was burned with Nurse.

                          _Col. D. Streamer_.




AUNT  ELIZA

  In the drinking-well
      (Which the plumber built her)
  Aunt Eliza fell,--
      We must buy a filter.

                          _Col. D. Streamer_.




SUSAN

  Susan poisoned her grandmother's tea;
  Grandmamma died in agonee.
  Susan's papa was greatly vexed,
  And he said to Susan, "My dear, what next?"

                          _Anonymous_.




BABY AND MARY

  Baby sat on the window-seat;
  Mary pushed Baby into the street;
  Baby's brains were dashed out in the "arey";
  And mother held up her forefinger at Mary.

                          _Anonymous_.




THE SUNBEAM

  I dined with a friend in the East, one day,
      Who had no window-sashes;
  A sunbeam through the window came
      And burnt his wife to ashes.
  "John, sweep your mistress away," said he,
  "And bring fresh wine for my friend and me."

                          _Anonymous_.




LITTLE WILLIE

  Little Willie hung his sister,
  She was dead before we missed her.
  "Willie's always up to tricks!
  Ain't he cute? He's only six!"

                          _Anonymous_.




MARY AMES

  Pity now poor Mary Ames,
  Blinded by her brother James;
  Red-hot nails in her eyes he poked,--
  I never saw Mary more provoked.

                          _Anonymous_.




MUDDLED METAPHORS

    _By a Moore-ose Melodist_

  Oh, ever thus from childhood's hour,
      I've seen my fondest hopes recede!
  I never loved a tree or flower
      That didn't trump its partner's lead.

  I never nursed a dear gazelle,
      To glad me with its dappled hide,
  But when it came to know me well,
      It fell upon the buttered side.

  I never taught a cockatoo
      To whistle comic songs profound,
  But, just when "Jolly Dogs" it knew,
      It failed for ninepence in the pound.

  I never reared a walrus cub
      In my aquarium to plunge,
  But, when it learned to love its tub,
      It placidly threw up the sponge!

  I never strove a metaphor
      To every bosom home to bring
  But--just as it had reached the door--
      It went and cut a pigeon's wing!

                          _Tom Hood, Jr_.




VILLON'S STRAIGHT TIP TO ALL CROSS COVES

    "_Tout aux tavernes et aux fiells_"

  Suppose you screeve? or go cheap-jack?
      Or fake the broads? or fig a nag?
  Or thimble-rig? or knap a yack?
      Or pitch a snide? or smash a rag?
      Suppose you duff? or nose and lag?
  Or get the straight, and land your pot?
      How do you melt the multy swag?
  Booze and the blowens cop the lot.

  Fiddle, or fence, or mace, or mack;
      Or moskeneer, or flash the drag;
  Dead-lurk a crib, or do a crack;
      Pad with a slang, or chuck a fag;
      Bonnet, or tout, or mump and gag;
  Rattle the tats, or mark the spot;
      You cannot bag a single stag;
  Booze and the blowens cop the lot.

  Suppose you try a different tack,
      And on the square you flash your flag?
  At penny-a-lining make your whack,
      Or with the mummers mug and gag?
      For nix, for nix the dibbs you bag!
  At any graft, no matter what,
      Your merry goblins soon stravag:
  Booze and the blowens cop the lot.

  THE MORAL

      It's up the spout and Charley Wag
  With wipes and tickers and what not
      Until the squeezer nips your scrag,
  Booze and the blowens cop the lot.

                          _W. E. Henley_.




ODE TO THE HUMAN HEART

  Blind Thamyris, and blind M. æonides,
      Pursue the triumph and partake the gale!
  Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees,
      To point a moral or adorn a tale.

  Full many a gem of purest ray serene,
      Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears,
  Like angels' visits, few and far between,
      Deck the long vista of departed years.

  Man never is, but always to be bless'd;
      The tenth transmitter of a foolish face,
  Like Aaron's serpent, swallows up the rest,
      And makes a sunshine in the shady place.

  For man the hermit sigh'd, till woman smiled,
      To waft a feather or to drown a fly,
  (In wit a man, simplicity a child,)
      With silent finger pointing to the sky.

  But fools rush in where angels fear to tread,
      Far out amid the melancholy main;
  As when a vulture on Imaus bred,
      Dies of a rose in aromatic pain.

                          _Laman Blanchard_.





IMERICKS

  There was an old person of Ware
  Who rode on the back of a bear;
      When they said, "Does it trot?"
      He said: "Certainly not,
  It's a Moppsikon Floppsikon bear."


  There was an old person of Wick,
  Who said, "Tick-a-Tick, Tick-a-Tick,
      Chickabee, Chickabaw,"
      And he said nothing more,
  This laconic old person of Wick.


  There was an old person of Woking,
  Whose mind was perverse and provoking;
      He sate on a rail,
      With his head in a pail,
  That illusive old person of Woking.


  There was once a man with a beard
  Who said, "It is just as I feared!--
      Two Owls and a Hen,
      Four Larks and a Wren
  Have all built their nests in my beard."


  There was an old man of Thermopylae,
  Who never did anything properly;
      But they said: "If you choose
      To boil eggs in your shoes,
  You cannot remain in Thermopylae."


  There was an Old Man who said, "Hush!
  I perceive a young bird in this bush!"
      When they said, "Is it small?"
      He replied, "Not at all;
  It is four times as big as the bush!"


  There was an Old Man who supposed
  That the street door was partially closed;
      But some very large Rats
      Ate his coats and his hats,
  While that futile Old Gentleman dozed.


  There was an Old Man of Leghorn,
  The smallest that ever was born;
      But quickly snapt up he
      Was once by a Puppy,
  Who devoured that Old Man of Leghorn.


  There was an Old Man of Kamschatka
  Who possessed a remarkably fat Cur;
      His gait and his waddle
      Were held as a model
  To all the fat dogs in Kamschatka.

                          _Edward Lear_.

     [_From books printed for the benefit of the New York
      Fair in aid of the Sanitary Commission_, 1864]



  There was a gay damsel of Lynn,
  Whose waist was so charmingly thin,
      The dressmaker needed
      A microscope--she did--
  To fit this slim person of Lynn.


  There was a young lady of Milton,
  Who was highly disgusted with Stilton;
      When offered a bite,
      She said, "Not a mite!"
  That suggestive young lady of Milton.


  There was a dear lady of Eden,
  Who on apples was quite fond of feedin';
      She gave one to Adam,
      Who said, "Thank you, Madam,"
  And then both skedaddled from Eden.


  There was a young lady of Wales,
  Who wore her back hair in two tails;
      And a hat on her head
      That was striped black and red,
  And studded with ten-penny nails.


  There was an old man who said, "Do
  Tell me how I'm to add two and two?
      I'm not very sure
      That it doesn't make four--
  But I fear that is almost too few."


  There once was a man who said, "How
  Shall I manage to carry my cow?
      For if I should ask it
      To get in my basket,
  'Twould make such a terrible row."

                          _Anonymous_.



  There once was an old man of Lyme
  Who married three wives at a time;
      When asked, "Why a third?"
      He replied, "One's absurd!
  And bigamy, sir, is a crime."


  There once was a person of Benin,
  Who wore clothes not fit to be seen in;
      When told that he shouldn't,
      He replied, "Gumscrumrudent!"
  A word of inscrutable meanin'.


  There once was a girl of New York
  Whose body was lighter than cork;
      She had to be fed
      For six weeks upon lead,
  Before she went out for a walk.

                          _Cosmo Monkhouse_.


  There was a young man who was bitten
  By twenty-two cats and a kitten;
      Sighed he, "It is clear
      My finish is near;
  No matter; I'll die like a Briton!"


  There was a princess of Bengal,
  Whose mouth was exceedingly small;
      Said she, "It would be
      More easy for me
  To do without eating at all!"


  There was an old stupid who wrote
  The verses above that we quote;
      His want of all sense
      Was something immense,
  Which made him a person of note.

                          _Walter Parke_.




VERS NONSENSIQUES

  À Potsdam, les totaux absteneurs,
  Comme tant d'autres titotalleurs,
      Sont gloutons, omnivores,
      Nasorubicolores,
  Grands manchons, et terribles duffeurs.


  Un vieux due (le meilleur des époux)
  Demandait (en lui tâtant le pouls)
      À sa vielle duchesse
      (Qu'un vieux catarrhe oppresse):--
  "Et ton thé, t'a-t-il ôté ta toux?"


  II naquit près de Choisy-le-Roi;
  Le Latin lui causait de l'effroi;
      Et les Mathématiques
      Lui donnaient des coliques,
  Et le Grec l'enrhûmait.    Ce fut moi.


  Il etait un gendarme, à Nanteuil,
  Qui n'avait qu'une dent et qu'un oeil;
      Mais cet oeil solitaire
      Etait plein de mystère;
  Cette dent, d'importance et d'orgueil.


  "Cassez-vous, cassez-vous, cassez-vous,
  O mer, sur vos froids gris calloux!"
      Ainsi traduisit Laure
      Au profit d'Isadore
  (Bon jeune homme, at son futur epoux.)


  Un marin naufrage (de Doncastre)
  Pour prière, an milieu du désastre
      Répétait à genoux
      Ces mots simples et doux:--
  "Scintillez, scintillez, petit astre!"

                          _George du Maurier_.



       *       *       *       *       *

  There was a young man of Cohoes,
  Wore tar on the end of his nose;
      When asked why he done it,
      He said for the fun it
  Afforded the men of Cohoes.

                          _Robert J. Burdette_.


       *       *       *       *       *

  I'd rather have habits than clothes,
  For that's where my intellect shows.
      And as for my hair,
      Do you think I should care
  To comb it at night with my toes?

  I'd rather have ears than a nose,
  I'd rather have fingers than toes,
      But as for my hair:
      I'm glad it's all there;
  I'll be awfully sad when it goes.

  I wish that my Room had a Floor;
  I don't so much care for a Door,
      But this walking around
      Without touching the ground
  Is getting to be quite a bore!

                          _Gelett Burgess_.



  H was an indigent Hen,
  Who picked up a corn now and then;
    She had but one leg
    On which she could peg,
  And behind her left ear was a wen.

                          _Bruce Porter_.




  Cleopatra, who thought they maligned her,
  Resolved to reform and be kinder;
    "If, when pettish," she said,
    "I should knock off your head,
  Won't you give me some gentle reminder?"

                          _Newton Mackintosh_.



  When that Seint George hadde sleyne ye draggon,
  He sate him down furninst a flaggon;
      And, wit ye well,
      Within a spell
  He had a bien plaisaunt jag on.

                          _Anonymous_.



  There was a young lady of Niger
  Who smiled as she rode on a Tiger;
      They came back from the ride
      With the lady inside,
  And the smile on the face of the Tiger.

                          _Anonymous_.



  There was a young maid who said, "Why
  Can't I look in my ear with my eye?
      If I give my mind to it,
      I'm sure I can do it,
  You never can tell till you try."

                          _Anonymous_.


         There was an Old Derry down Derry,
         Who loved to see little folks merry;
         So he made them a Book,
         And with laughter they shook,
         At the fun of that Derry down Derry!




          TO THE GREAT-GRANDCHILDREN,
          GRAND-NEPHEWS, AND GRAND-NIECES
          OF EDWARD, 13th EARL OF DERBY,

          THIS BOOK OF DRAWINGS AND VERSES

          (The greater part of which were originally
          made and composed for their parents,)

          IS DEDICATED BY THE AUTHOR,

          EDWARD LEAR





1.

               There was an Old Man with a beard,
               Who said, "It is just as I feared!--
               Two Owls and a Hen,
               Four Larks and a Wren,
               Have all built their nests in my beard!"




2.

               There was a Young Lady of Ryde,
               Whose shoe-strings were seldom untied;
               She purchased some clogs,
               And some small spotty dogs,
               And frequently walked about Ryde.




3.

               There was an Old Man with a nose,
               Who said, "If you choose to suppose,
               That my nose is too long,
               You are certainly wrong!"
               That remarkable Man with a nose.




4.

               There was an Old Man on a hill,
               Who seldom, if ever, stood still;
               He ran up and down,
               In his Grandmother's gown,
               Which adorned that Old Man on a hill.




5.

               There was a Young Lady whose bonnet,
               Came untied when the birds sate upon it;
               But she said, "I don't care!
               All the birds in the air
               Are welcome to sit on my bonnet!"




6.

               There was a Young Person of Smyrna,
               Whose Grandmother threatened to burn her;
               But she seized on the Cat,
               And said, "Granny, burn that!
               "You incongruous Old Woman of Smyrna!"




7.

               There was an Old Person of Chili,
               Whose conduct was painful and silly;
               He sate on the stairs,
               Eating apples and pears,
               That imprudent Old Person of Chili.




8.

               There was an Old Man with a gong,
               Who bumped at it all the day long;
               But they called out, "O law!
               You're a horrid old bore!"
               So they smashed that Old Man with a gong.




9.

               There was an Old Lady of Chertsey,
               Who made a remarkable curtsey;
               She twirled round and round,
               Till she sunk underground,
               Which distressed all the people of Chertsey.




10.

               There was an Old Man in a tree,
               Who was horribly bored by a Bee;
               When they said, "Does it buzz?"
               He replied, "Yes, it does!
               "It's a regular brute of a Bee!"




11.

               There was an Old Man with a flute,
               A sarpint ran into his boot;
               But he played day and night,
               Till the sarpint took flight,
               And avoided that man with a flute.




12.

               There was a Young Lady whose chin,
               Resembled the point of a pin:
               So she had it made sharp,
               And purchased a harp,
               And played several tunes with her chin.




13.

               There was an Old Man of Kilkenny,
               Who never had more than a penny;
               He spent all that money,
               In onions and honey,
               That wayward Old Man of Kilkenny.




14.

               There was an Old Person of Ischia,
               Whose conduct grew friskier and friskier;
               He danced hornpipes and jigs,
               And ate thousands of figs,
               That lively Old Person of Ischia.




15.

               There was an Old Man in a boat,
               Who said, "I'm afloat! I'm afloat!"
               When they said, "No! you ain't!"
               He was ready to faint,
               That unhappy Old Man in a boat.




16.

               There was a Young lady of Portugal,
               Whose ideas were excessively nautical;
               She climbed up a tree,
               To examine the sea,
               But declared she would never leave Portugal.




17.

               There was an Old Man of Moldavia,
               Who had the most curious behaviour;
               For while he was able,
               He slept on a table,
               That funny Old Man of Moldavia




18.

               There was an Old Man of Madras,
               Who rode on a cream-coloured ass;
               But the length of its ears,
               So promoted his fears,
               That it killed that Old Man of Madras.




19.

               There was an Old Person of Leeds,
               Whose head was infested with beads;
               She sat on a stool,
               And ate gooseberry fool,
               Which agreed with that person of Leeds.




20.

               There was an Old Man of Peru,
               Who never knew what he should do;
               So he tore off his hair,
               And behaved like a bear,
               That intrinsic Old Man of Peru.




21.

               There was an Old Person of Hurst,
               Who drank when he was not athirst;
               When they said, "You'll grow fatter,"
               He answered, "What matter?"
               That globular Person of Hurst.




22.

               There was a Young person of Crete,
               Whose toilette was far from complete;
               She dressed in a sack,
               Spickle-speckled with black,
               That ombliferous person of Crete.




23.

               There was an Old Man of the Isles,
               Whose face was pervaded with smiles;
               He sung high dum diddle,
               And played on the fiddle,
               That amiable Man of the Isles.




24.

               There was an Old Person of Buda,
               Whose conduct grew ruder and ruder;
               Till at last, with a hammer,
               They silenced his clamour,
               By smashing that Person of Buda




25.

               There was an Old Man of Columbia,
               Who was thirsty, and called out for some beer;
               But they brought it quite hot,
               In a small copper pot,
               Which disgusted that man of Columbia.




26.

               There was a young Lady of Dorking,
               Who bought a large bonnet for walking;
               But its colour and size,
               So bedazzled her eyes,
               That she very soon went back to Dorking.




27.

               There was an Old Man who supposed,
               That the street door was partially closed;
               But some very large rats,
               Ate his coats and his hats,
               While that futile old gentleman dozed.




28.

               There was an Old Man of the West,
               Who wore a pale plum-coloured vest;
               When they said, "Does it fit?"
               He replied, "Not a bit!"
               That uneasy Old Man of the West.




29.

               There was an Old Man of the Wrekin,
               Whose shoes made a horrible creaking;
               But they said, "Tell us whether,
               Your shoes are of leather,
               Or of what, you Old Man of the Wrekin?"




30.

               There was a Young Lady whose eyes,
               Were unique as to colour and size;
               When she opened them wide,
               People all turned aside,
               And started away in surprise.




31.

               There was a Young Lady of Norway,
               Who casually sat in a doorway;
               When the door squeezed her flat,
               She exclaimed, "What of that?"
               This courageous Young Lady of Norway.




32.

               There was an Old Man of Vienna,
               Who lived upon Tincture of Senna;
               When that did not agree,
               He took Camomile Tea,
               That nasty Old Man of Vienna.




33.

               There was an Old Person whose habits,
               Induced him to feed upon Rabbits;
               When he'd eaten eighteen,
               He turned perfectly green,
               Upon which he relinquished those habits.




34.

               There was an old person of Dover,
               Who rushed through a field of blue Clover;
               But some very large bees,
               Stung his nose and his knees,
               So he very soon went back to Dover.




35.

               There was an Old Man of Marseilles,
               Whose daughters wore bottle-green veils;
               They caught several Fish,
               Which they put in a dish,
               And sent to their Pa at Marseilles.




36.

               There was an Old Person of Cadiz,
               Who was always polite to all ladies;
               But in handing his daughter,
               He fell into the water,
               Which drowned that Old Person of Cadiz.




37.

               There was an Old Person of Basing,
               Whose presence of mind was amazing;
               He purchased a steed,
               Which he rode at full speed,
               And escaped from the people of Basing.




38.

               There was an Old Man of Quebec,
               A beetle ran over his neck;
               But he cried, "With a needle,
               I'll slay you, O beadle!"
               That angry Old Man of Quebec.




39.

               There was an Old Person of Philae,
               Whose conduct was scroobious and wily;
               He rushed up a Palm,
               When the weather was calm,
               And observed all the ruins of Philae.




40.

               There was a Young Lady of Bute,
               Who played on a silver-gilt flute;
               She played several jigs,
               To her uncle's white pigs,
               That amusing Young Lady of Bute.




41.

               There was a Young Lady whose nose,
               Was so long that it reached to her toes;
               So she hired an Old Lady,
               Whose conduct was steady,
               To carry that wonderful nose.




42.

               There was a Young Lady of Turkey,
               Who wept when the weather was murky;
               When the day turned out fine,
               She ceased to repine,
               That capricious Young Lady of Turkey.




43.

               There was an Old Man of Apulia,
               Whose conduct was very peculiar;
               He fed twenty sons,
               Upon nothing but buns,
               That whimsical Man of Apulia.




44.

               There was an Old Man with a poker,
               Who painted his face with red oker;
               When they said, "You're a Guy!"
               He made no reply,
               But knocked them all down with his poker.




45.

               There was an Old Person of Prague,
               Who was suddenly seized with the plague;
               But they gave him some butter,
               Which caused him to mutter,
               And cured that Old Person of Prague.




46.

               There was an Old Man of the North,
               Who fell into a basin of broth;
               But a laudable cook,
               Fished him out with a hook,
               Which saved that Old Man of the North.




47.

               There was a Young Lady of Poole,
               Whose soup was excessively cool;
               So she put it to boil,
               By the aid of some oil,
               That ingenious Young Lady of Poole.




48.

               There was an Old Person of Mold,
               Who shrank from sensations of cold;
               So he purchased some muffs,
               Some furs and some fluffs,
               And wrapped himself from the cold.




49.

               There was an Old Man or Nepaul,
               From his horse had a terrible fall;
               But, though split quite in two,
               By some very strong glue,
               They mended that Man of Nepaul.




50.

               There was an old Man of th' Abruzzi,
               So blind that he couldn't his foot see;
               When they said, "That's your toe,"
               He replied, "Is it so?"
               That doubtful old Man of th' Abruzzi.




51.

               There was an Old Person of Rhodes,
               Who strongly objected to toads;
               He paid several cousins,
               To catch them by dozens,
               That futile Old Person of Rhodes.




52.

               There was an Old Man of Peru,
               Who watched his wife making a stew;
               But once by mistake,
               In a stove she did bake,
               That unfortunate Man of Peru.




53.

               There was an Old Man of Melrose,
               Who walked on the tips of his toes;
               But they said, "It ain't pleasant,
               To see you at present,
               You stupid Old Man of Melrose."




54.

               There was a Young Lady of Lucca,
               Whose lovers completely forsook her;
               She ran up a tree,
               And said, "Fiddle-de-dee!"
               Which embarrassed the people of Lucca.




55.

               There was an old Man of Bohemia,
               Whose daughter was christened Euphemia;
               Till one day, to his grief,
               She married a thief,
               Which grieved that old Man of Bohemia.




56.

               There was an Old Man of Vesuvius,
               Who studied the works of Vitruvius;
               When the flames burnt his book,
               To drinking he took,
               That morbid Old Man of Vesuvius.




57.

               There was an Old Man of Cape Horn,
               Who wished he had never been born;
               So he sat on a chair,
               Till he died of despair,
               That dolorous Man of Cape Horn.




58.

               There was an Old Lady whose folly,
               Induced her to sit in a holly;
               Whereon by a thorn,
               Her dress being torn,
               She quickly became melancholy.




59.

               There was an Old Man of Corfu,
               Who never knew what he should do;
               So he rushed up and down,
               Till the sun made him brown,
               That bewildered Old Man of Corfu.




60.

               There was an Old Man of the South,
               Who had an immoderate mouth;
               But in swallowing a dish,
               That was quite full of fish,
               He was choked, that Old Man of the South.




61.

               There was an Old Man of the Nile,
               Who sharpened his nails with a file;
               Till he cut off his thumbs,
               And said calmly, "This comes--
               Of sharpening one's nails with a file!"




62.

               There was an Old Person of Rheims,
               Who was troubled with horrible dreams;
               So, to keep him awake,
               They fed him with cake,
               Which amused that Old Person of Rheims.




63.

               There was an Old Person of Cromer,
               Who stood on one leg to read Homer;
               When he found he grew stiff,
               He jumped over the cliff,
               Which concluded that Person of Cromer.




64.

               There was an Old Person of Troy,
               Whose drink was warm brandy and soy;
               Which he took with a spoon,
               By the light of the moon,
               In sight of the city of Troy.




65.

               There was an Old Man of the Dee,
               Who was sadly annoyed by a flea;
               When he said, "I will scratch it,"
               They gave him a hatchet,
               Which grieved that Old Man of the Dee.




66.

               There was an Old Man of Dundee,
               Who frequented the top of a tree;
               When disturbed by the crows,
               He abruptly arose,
               And exclaimed, "I'll return to Dundee."




67.

               There was an Old Person of Tring,
               Who embellished his nose with a ring;
               He gazed at the moon,
               Every evening in June,
               That ecstatic Old Person of Tring.




68.

               There was an Old Man on some rocks,
               Who shut his wife up in a box;
               When she said, "Let me out,"
               He exclaimed, "Without doubt,
               You will pass all your life in that box."




69.

               There was an Old Man of Coblenz,
               The length of whose legs was immense;
               He went with one prance,
               From Turkey to France,
               That surprising Old Man of Coblenz.




70.

               There was an Old Man of Calcutta,
               Who perpetually ate bread and butter;
               Till a great bit of muffin,
               On which he was stuffing,
               Choked that horrid old man of Calcutta.




71.

               There was an Old Man in a pew,
               Whose waistcoat was spotted with blue;
               But he tore it in pieces,
               To give to his nieces,--
               That cheerful Old Man in a pew.




72.

               There was an Old Man who said, "How,--
               Shall I flee from this horrible Cow?
               I will sit on this stile,
               And continue to smile,
               Which may soften the heart of that Cow."




73.

               There was a Young Lady of Hull,
               Who was chased by a virulent Bull;
               But she seized on a spade,
               And called out--"Who's afraid!"
               Which distracted that virulent Bull.




74.

               There was an Old Man of Whitehaven,
               Who danced a quadrille with a Raven;
               But they said--"It's absurd,
               To encourage this bird!"
               So they smashed that Old Man of Whitehaven.




75.

               There was an Old Man of Leghorn,
               The smallest as ever was born;
               But quickly snapt up he,
               Was once by a puppy,
               Who devoured that Old Man of Leghorn.




76.

               There was an Old Man of the Hague,
               Whose ideas were excessively vague;
               He built a balloon,
               To examine the moon,
               That deluded Old Man of the Hague.




77.

               There was an Old Man of Jamaica,
               Who suddenly married a Quaker;
               But she cried out--"O lack!
               I have married a black!"
               Which distressed that Old Man of Jamaica.




78.

               There was an old person of Dutton,
               Whose head was so small as a button;
               So to make it look big,
               He purchased a wig,
               And rapidly rushed about Dutton.




79.

               There was a Young Lady of Tyre,
               Who swept the loud chords of a lyre;
               At the sound of each sweep,
               She enraptured the deep,
               And enchanted the city of Tyre.




80.

               There was an Old Man who said, "Hush!
               I perceive a young bird in this bush!"
               When they said--"Is it small?"
               He replied--"Not at all!
               It is four times as big as the bush!"




81.

               There was an Old Man of the East,
               Who gave all his children a feast;
               But they all ate so much,
               And their conduct was such,
               That it killed that Old Man of the East.




82.

               There was an Old Man of Kamschatka,
               Who possessed a remarkably fat cur,
               His gait and his waddle,
               Were held as a model,
               To all the fat dogs in Kamschatka.




83.

               There was an Old Man of the Coast,
               Who placidly sat on a post;
               But when it was cold,
               He relinquished his hold,
               And called for some hot buttered toast.




84.

               There was an Old Person of Bangor,
               Whose face was distorted with anger;
               He tore off his boots,
               And subsisted on roots,
               That borascible person of Bangor.




85.

               There was an Old Man with a beard,
               Who sat on a horse when he reared;
               But they said, "Never mind!
               You will fall off behind,
               You propitious Old Man with a beard!"




86.

               There was an Old Man of the West,
               Who never could get any rest;
               So they set him to spin,
               On his nose find his chin,
               Which cured that Old Man of the West.




87.

               There was an Old Person of Anerley,
               Whose conduct was strange and unmannerly;
               He rushed down the Strand,
               With a Pig in each hand,
               But returned in the evening to Anerley.




88.

               There was a Young Lady of Troy,
               Whom several large flies did annoy;
               Some she killed with a thump,
               Some she drowned at the pump,
               And some she took with her to Troy.




89.

               There was an Old Man of Berlin,
               Whose form was uncommonly thin;
               Till he once, by mistake,
               Was mixed up in a cake,
               So they baked that Old Man of Berlin.




90.

               There was an Old Person of Spain,
               Who hated all trouble and pain;
               So he sate on a chair,
               With his feet in the air,
               That umbrageous Old Person of Spain.




91.

               There was a Young Lady of Russia,
               Who screamed so that no one could hush her;
               Her screams were extreme,
               No one heard such a scream,
               As was screamed by that Lady of Russia.




92.

               There was an Old Man, who said, "Well!
               Will NOBODY answer this bell?
               I have pulled day and night,
               Till my hair has grown white,
               But nobody answers this bell!"




93.

               There was a Young Lady of Wales,
               Who caught a large fish without scales;
               When she lifted her hook,
               She exclaimed, "Only look!"
               That ecstatic Young Lady of Wales.




94.

               There was an Old Person of Cheadle,
               Was put in the stocks by the beadle;
               For stealing some pigs,
               Some coats, and some wigs,
               That horrible Person of Cheadle.




95.

               There was a Young Lady of Welling,
               Whose praise all the world was a-telling;
               She played on the harp,
               And caught several carp,
               That accomplished Young Lady of Welling.




96.

               There was an Old Person of Tartary,
               Who divided his jugular artery;
               But he screeched to his wife,
               And she said, "Oh, my life!
               Your death will be felt by all Tartary!"




97.

               There was an old Person of Chester,
               Whom several small children did pester;
               They threw some large stones,
               Which broke most of his bones,
               And displeased that old person of Chester.




98.

               There was an Old Man with an owl,
               Who continued to bother and howl;
               He sate on a rail,
               And imbibed bitter ale,
               Which refreshed that Old Man and his owl.




99.

               There was an Old Person of Gretna,
               Who rushed down the crater of Etna;
               When they said, "Is it hot?"
               He replied, "No, it's not!"
               That mendacious Old Person of Gretna.




100.

               There was a Young Lady of Sweden,
               Who went by the slow train to Weedon;
               When they cried, "Weedon Station!"
               She made no observation,
               But thought she should go back to Sweden.




101.

               There was a Young Girl of Majorca,
               Whose aunt was a very fast walker;
               She walked seventy miles,
               And leaped fifteen stiles,
               Which astonished that Girl of Majorca.




102.

               There was an Old Man of the Cape,
               Who possessed a large Barbary Ape;
               Till the Ape one dark night,
               Set the house on a light,
               Which burned that Old Man of the Cape.




103.

               There was an Old Lady of Prague,
               Whose language was horribly vague;
               When they said, "Are these caps?"
               She answered, "Perhaps!"
               That oracular Lady of Prague.




104.

               There was an Old Person of Sparta,
               Who had twenty-five sons and one daughter;
               He fed them on snails,
               And weighed them in scales,
               That wonderful person of Sparta.




105.

               There was an Old Man at a easement,
               Who held up his hands in amazement;
               When they said, "Sir, you'll fall!"
               He replied, "Not at all!"
               That incipient Old Man at a casement.




106.

               There was an old Person of Burton,
               Whose answers were rather uncertain;
               When they said, "How d'ye do?"
               He replied, "Who are you?"
               That distressing old person of Burton.




107.

               There was an Old Person of Ems,
               Who casually fell in the Thames;
               And when he was found,
               They said he was drowned,
               That unlucky Old Person of Ems.




108.

               There was an Old Person of Ewell,
               Who chiefly subsisted on gruel;
               But to make it more nice,
               He inserted some mice,
               Which refreshed that Old Person of Ewell.




109.

               There was a Young Lady of Parma,
               Whose conduct grew calmer and calmer;
               When they said, "Are you dumb?"
               She merely said, "Hum!"
               That provoking Young Lady of Parma.




110.

               There was an Old Man of Aosta,
               Who possessed a large Cow, but he lost her;
               But they said, "Don't you see,
               She has rushed up a tree?
               You invidious Old Man of Aosta!"




111.

               There was an Old Man, on whose nose,
               Most birds of the air could repose;
               But they all flew away,
               At the closing of day,
               Which relieved that Old Man and his nose.




112.

               There was a Young Lady of Clare,
               Who was sadly pursued by a bear;
               When she found she was tired,
               She abruptly expired,
               That unfortunate Lady of Clare.

